if you want to make more money you might
want to consider doing this so number
one is hold that thought for just a
second because the thing that comes
before that is this grow of yours oh God
this is the entrepreneur life cycle and
there are six stages now the vast
majority of people get stuck on stage
three and I've made some of the biggest
career mistakes at this point and you
end up living the same 6 months for 20
straight years suffering until you learn
how to break free from it I want to go
through the whole thing this is going to
be awesome Alex horos is the master of
business strategy an autist in tring
companies into the millions and a
leading voice in how to craft your way
to success he's an entrepreneurial
Powerhouse whether you're starting out
or want to go from 1 million to 10
million there are certain behaviors and
actions that will increase the
likelihood of success that we're going
to go through but here's the really hard
truth that a lot of people don't like
talking about entrepreneurs must be
willing to make impossible choices have
the courage to be willing to be wrong
have Shame by failing at things in front
of people whose opinions they care about
and that fear keeps people stuck in a
job and a life they don't want for years
and that was my path I had a white
collar job condo overlooking the city
everything's according to plan and I
remember thinking like I didn't want to
be alive cuz I was so afraid but once
you get over the fear it unleashes this
whole new realm of possibility of being
able to do what you want and that is
when you can learn the real game of
Entrepreneurship such as knowing that
business ideas typically come from one
of three piece and you only need one of
those three and then there's the four RS
for customer success how to learn new
skills quickly how to stand out in a
competitive market the winning strategy
for 2025 and so much more so where
should I start
I have been forced into a bet with my
team we're about to hit 10 million
subscribers on YouTube which is our
biggest Milestone ever thanks to all of
you and we want to have a massive party
for the people that have worked on this
show for years behind the scenes so they
said to me Steve for every new
subscriber we get in the next 30 days
can $1 be given to our celebration fund
for the entire team and I've agreed to
the bet so if you want to say thank you
to the team behind the scenes at D of
here all you've got to do is hit the
Subscribe button actually this is the
first time I'm going to tell you not to
subscribe because it might end up
costing me an
[Applause]
[Music]
awful Alex if someone's just clicked on
this conversation and they're
considering listening for the next
couple of hours based on everything that
you do for the millions of entrepreneurs
that follow you that read your books can
you tell me exactly why you believe they
should stay and listen and who should
stay and listen at
acquisition. we scale
businesses the content that I generate
that we put out conversations like this
helps people who are going from Z to one
just getting off the ground to helping
people go from 1 million to 10 million
um to helping the entrepreneurs going
from 10 to 100 either get there or exit
along the way and there are Frameworks
that cross all three of those that I
consider both deep and wide um that help
any business navigate whatever strategic
decision is in front of them to get The
Highest Potential return for their time
and so if you're listening or watching
then if one of those Frameworks applies
immediately to your business and allows
you to pull five years forward in your
career I would say that's a pretty good
return on time for the people that are
at zero yeah what is it that they're
typically coming to you to help them
with so if you were one of them yeah
what is it that they want from Alex hzi
I think it's um there's what they think
they want and what they actually need um
which are two different things and so I
think what they think they want is uh
some tactic that's going to immediately
help them start a business um what they
typically actually need is um the
courage to be willing to be wrong and to
be willing to have Shame by failing at
things in front of people whose opinions
they care about and I think that's like
if I re rewind the clock for me it was
probably one of the hardest things that
I had to get over and so I think that's
why maybe my message resonates with a
lot of people is because it was so hard
for me um to get over and what's
interesting is basically anybody who's
listening the harder it is for you to
break free of whatever kind of mental
prison you've made for yourself whether
that's real or just in in your head
the more compelling your story will be
when you break through it um because it
will resonate with even more people uh
for the people that it was easy that
their story doesn't have doesn't have a
lot like I was immediately an
entrepreneur like I wasn't like that I
had a job when I was in high school I
had a job immediately out of college
some people were like I was selling
lemonade out of the back of my you know
thing when I was 13 I didn't do any of
that like I School failed me I actually
was pretty good at school uh I didn't
have any of those issues you know what I
mean and so I had a pretty clear career
path and so I had many would consider
like I had a real opportunity cost so I
had a white collar job and I had uh a
GMAT score above Harvard's mid score and
so I had a a really clear path of what
my life would could look like in the
next 20 30 years and it was fairly well
defined like I'll go to Harvard or
Stanford or one of the top Business
Schools and then I will either go back
into management consulting or I'll go
into Investment Banking and then
eventually end up in private Equity um
and that would be the path right and
then all the flowers would be set at my
feet and you know everyone would say we
approve of you you're an excellent
person but when I saw the people who
were 20 years ahead of me I really
didn't want their life and then it
started making me look at my life and I
was like I don't even know if I really
want my life um and so the the big
decisions that I've made in my life
unfortunately um have almost always come
at the at the the doorstep of a parent
death um and I think maybe in some ways
that makes me a coward uh for having
needed death to make decisions and so
operational realizing that has been
something that has helped me move faster
to make decisions that I know I need to
make but don't and so like the first big
kind of like what felt like a death
decision was um I was a consultant 22 is
years old I had a paid for you know
condo that I bought uh overlooking the
city and I remember thinking like I
really hope I don't wake up tomorrow and
that and I don't mean that to be
melodramatic it just I just for a period
of time I just always just like hooped
every night I was like I just really up
I don't wake up tomorrow like I just
don't want to do this and what was
difficult about that was that at that
time was when my father was most proud
of me uh because I was doing everything
that was according to plan you know he
could talk like his son who graduated in
three years from Vanderbilt had the had
the good job like everything was we're
following the plan um and it was upon
realizing that my ultimate expression of
living out his dream was me feeling like
I didn't want to be alive and so in and
it took me time to get to that point to
even articulate that because obviously
you never want to kind of like admit
failure of like I have really messed
something up here um but I was living my
life to win someone else's game and when
I realized that I realized that one of
our dreams had to die either his or mine
and when I realized that his dream must
die in order for mine to live was a a
statement that I kind of crystallized
when I was at that point in my life like
I had to keep repeating that like his
dream has to die in order for mine to
live and so to put this in perspective
of like how afraid of my father's
judgment I was I left the state and
drove across the country halfway through
before calling him to tell him that I
was gone and so I I bring this up
because I don't try I'm not trying to be
dramatic here but I'm saying that if you
feel a lot of pressure I get it like I
tried to leave the job that I was at to
pursue just literally anything that
wasn't that just I wanted to start a
business at some point I didn't know how
I was going to do it I just knew that
what I was doing was not the path I
wanted to be on and everybody around me
wanted me to be on that path and so I
went to go be like hey I'm thinking
about doing something else and you know
it would always be that ah you know
don't later later like everything's good
later you know and um I remember when I
called my dad and I told him that he
said understand why don't you come like
come home well uh well I didn't tell him
that I was I was gone yet like I said
hey I want you know I want to go pursue
this Fitness thing
um he said cool come over for lunch
we'll talk about it you know and and he
and I was like I'm I'm already gone and
then obviously his tone changed a lot um
and um and you know our relationship
struggled for you know years after that
and I I also bring that up because
sometimes there's this illusion that
like you know you get on the on the
Oscar stage or whatever it is and you're
like hey I just want to think you know
my mom my dad my friends for always
supporting me and um I can't say that
and I wish I could and you might not not
be able to say that either and I also
don't think that's a reason not to do it
and so um we did struggle for years
after that to kind of like because I was
basically living as what was once his
prodical son uh goes and takes a minimum
wage job as a personal trainer at a gym
uh like you know cleaning floors and
stuff to learn just to learn the gym
business um but that was ultimately like
how I broke free literally you know
physically uh leaving the area and you
know mentally but I think that I had to
accept that
there was a there was a timeline where
my father would never talk to me again
and I had to be okay with that um to
pursue what I wanted and I think that
when you ask the original question what
are the people from 0 to one really
looking for I read tons of business
books at that time but I couldn't use
any of them because I was so afraid and
what's crazy is that like I think about
it now in retrospect and it's like it's
crazy how large the perceived monsters
can appear and Leila has this quote that
I love but it's um is a mile wide an
inch deep and so you look at it it looks
like this ocean and then you take the
first step and you realize you don't
drown because it's like oh there's
ground underneath of this right there's
other people who are more on my path and
the friends you lose you gain new
friends right and so um that
fear was the hardest decision that I've
had to overcome in my entrepreneural
career and I think of all the of all the
the split paths in my life that was the
one that if I had many timelines or many
universes that existed that was is
probably the one that is the most likely
that I would not have parted from so I
think in like 90% of universes that Alex
rosi exists I'm just a consultant
somewhere and so um I would encourage
you if you do feel that you're not going
to die like you won't die and you might
just
live it's so interesting because I think
everything you've said is just
absolutely spot on but you're right in
way you say that if you'd asked an
audience member listening now why they
haven't started yet they would say fear
they would say I haven't got the X I
haven't got the Y but actually it is
such an emotional thing and we don't
talk about that enough because
uncertainty is humans seem to be
allergic to uncertainty and they'd
rather the certain misery of their
current situation typically than
uncertainty and I think um and I and I
used what I consider a very non-p
palatable word of coward purposefully
because no one wants to say they're
afraid because if you say you're afraid
then it means you're a coward and I
think that it only means coward if you
don't if you allow that fear to change
your behavior in an aversive way as in
it not towards what you want and so you
know the inverse of that many people
have heard it Courage is not acting um
without fear but despite fear um and I
think that um when you
act when you allow fear to change your
behavior the wrong way that is when you
can give yourself that title of coward
and I think that that is a title that I
feared my whole life and that label is
almost I'm more afraid of that label
than the label of failure I'd rather be
a failure than a
coward is there a framework for knowing
when to
quit so I think there's the there's like
the math behind it and the math I think
is pretty straightforward so like when
do you quit your business I like you've
saved up three to six months of personal
savings number one number two is that
you have started something because
nowadays in the digital age you can
begin a business on the side that can
generate income and that income um in
the small amount of time that you're not
working uh replaces or at least matches
the existing income you have from your
your current job and you've been able to
do that or demonstrate that income for
like 3 to six months if you do that
that's a very like math way of
approaching it that also is basically
never the reason that people aren't
quitting their job right like that's a
really s like I have I have I have
backlog I've matched my current income
with my part-time work and if I just put
my full-time work I would probably make
more very reasonable but never actually
the reason that people don't do it I was
I was thinking about the two sort of
reasons why someone might quit something
or feel like they want to quit and one
of them is clearly because it's hard and
that's obviously not reason enough to
quit and then there's another one which
you are speaking to there which is it's
not moving me towards a meaningful goal
irrespective of how hard it is like a
marathon you're raising money for a
charity you care about it's hard but you
don't quit yeah and then there's maybe
if you're running a marathon for no
apparent reason you know there was no
charity there was no one watching there
was no like Fitness benefit then that's
a good I guess moment to consider
quitting um my story mimics yours in a
way that I didn't realize I didn't
realize you went through a similar thing
in terms of call the parents
disownership yeah um no real great
option to to flee to but feeling like
the current path that would have led me
to be I don't know business management
student was significantly worse on
balance than taking the risk but I think
maybe a point of Distinction is it
didn't I was so naive that it didn't
feel like a risk yeah so what's really
interesting about that is um the
guarantee and so a lot of times we don't
we don't look at what I call the don't
which is like the the alternate path and
so if I had played out my existing path
I had a guarantee of outcome I didn't
want it was just out a
delay whereas here there's a chance that
I can make it and so one of the final
kind of framework for making the
decision was guaranteed bad chance at
good and I was like well I might as well
take a chance and I I strongly um
encourage thinking about uh playing it
out and so what I mean by that is like I
think
fear exists in the vague not in the
specific and so when you say I'm GNA
quit my job and then what if this
doesn't work I'm GNA failure tons of
fear
if I say I'm going to quit my job and
then I'm going to try and start a
business and if the business doesn't
work I'll probably have a compelling
story that I could tell for business
school if I wanted to to show that I had
some entrepreneurial slant in the
meantime I could use that experience
plus my job experience to probably get
another or maybe even better job in the
meantime and match or or supersede my
existing income and the actual loss
would be maybe the savings that I had
saved up but if I'm younger or I haven't
made as much money as I want then that's
never been the amount of money that
would be material anyways on the grand
scheme of what I would like to make um
and in terms of living situation I will
worst case go back to my parents house
with my tail between my legs or sleep at
a friend's couch because I have enough
people that would be willing to put me
up in a garage if I had to and so it's
like okay so my actual worst case
scenario is just like I have a cool
story and maybe some shame that I is
self-inflicted cuz it's not like no one
else cares really but it's
self-inflicted shame
and maybe a detour or a different story
that I have to tell later on in my
career not as much fear there right but
like the first one like I'll fail
everyone will hate me and I'll die the
first one sounded like it was written by
your like amigdala like the Fierce and
the second one was pure like prefrontal
cortex it was all logic yeah and I'm
wondering you know as you're going into
that decision obviously fear is going to
lead it so of course you're going to go
for option one where you just think
about the downside maybe there's a
practice that allows you to get into
your prefrontal cortex into logic and I
think that's I actually so I think you
nailed it and said it way better than I
did but I think that's I think going
from vague to specific basically
disengages your mdala because it's it
can't reason the logic chain of
causation and causality of what's going
to happen next in a chain of events and
so when you get into the specific of it
all of a sudden you're like okay I'm not
going to be homeless and then shamed and
die um I might live in inferior living
conditions for a short period which by
the way when you're later on in your
life you'll look back and think of as
the good old days cuz I can't believe I
was couch surfing I was pursuing my
dreams right it's it's only like in the
moment that it feels bad when you look
back like even I I find this hilarious
like like how long after you do
something embarrassing is it
funny right like at at some point for
almost all of us with enough time the
shameful experience becomes funny and so
if it is going to become funny
eventually it might as well become funny
now yeah and so it's just like pulling
the time Horizon up but all of that
prefrontal cortex decision making and so
um no but I think that's exact like I
think that that nailed it because when I
thought about this this decision
obviously I had my very you know
emotional statement around like his
dream has to die for mine to live yes
also logic downside risk here I'll have
a story and I can always get my job
back okay and if I can't get that job
back I'll will have other ones that will
be available fine and if I have a
downgrading and some people think that
I'm not as successful as then okay I'll
not stop though and so I think that that
that demystifies a lot of the fears I
think that applies not just for
entrepreneurial fears I think applies
for any fear like I'm going to talk like
I can't tell this person this bad news
all right let's play it out I say
something and then they're going to kill
me probably not so what's going to
happen I'll say these words and then
there they they they'll flip the table
they'll they'll flick me off they'll
maybe just feel hurt and maybe they'll
cry maybe they'll shout okay okay if
they shouted at me what do I do like and
you just kind of play it out and you're
like okay I think I have like most of
these conditions prepared for and then
all of a sudden you can like have those
things what you also said is that in the
face of guaranteed misery any option is
better yeah like it's real you get to
live once yeah so like why would
guaranteed misery be better than any
available option it's delay discounting
that's what's crazy is delay discounting
happens both ways like um so like you
set your alarm for 5:00 a.m. at night
and you're like I'm going to wake up at
5: but that's because you're delaying
the pain of waking up and when it's
immediate when I have to quit the job
like I'll quit my job tomorrow for 20
years and so it's just like we always we
we we delay the fact that we're going to
be miserable into the present uh to like
a like we we massively discount what a
whole lifetime of misery would be amen
when you're thinking about what to
pursue so say you've left the job you've
quit the thing when you're thinking
about what to
pursue how much of that is a
decision derived from self-awareness
because you know they'll someone will
look at you now and be like Oh No Alex
did this so I'm going to start a
acquisition. comom you know or they'll
say um I want to I saw Steve Jobs did
that thing with the computers I'm going
to start Apple yeah right or Elon I'm
going to do the spaceships how much do
you have to know thyself to know what to
pursue man this is a really good
question so um there's a tweet that I
love by Andrew Wilkinson which is um
every entrepreneur ever colon here's the
winning number for my lottery ticket and
so it's like every entrepreneur will say
here's the winning lottery ticket but
it's like that game already that drawing
already happened ah okay yeah right and
so like you can't cash that ticket in
it's already done and so people say the
word first principles no one really
knows what it means uh I mean some
people do but the I think far more
people say it than know what it means
and so basically there are foundational
truths of business that that exist and
the conditions of the environment will
change and so you have to apply those
truths to whatever the current condition
is and so that's what I try and tease
out with the books and the stuff that I
that I put out in content but at the end
of the day you have an input of time
like zooming all the way out if the goal
assuming that your goal is to make money
okay like and this is just a purely
economic business goal then you have
time which is the primary currency that
you trade it and you make dollars over a
period of time and so I tend to reject
the idea of like never you know never
trade time for dollars or anything like
that because everyone trades time for
dollars it's just some of us are more
efficient at it than others but even
exchanges that occur that just are not
denominated in time still occur over
time and so uh you have this
foundational unit of time which you're
going to give in what we're seeking is
the highest return on that time and so
there you know within a business context
there's kind of three levels of uh
things that have to occur in business
you have to you know attract attention
you have to convert attention then you
have to deliver something uh for that
attention and in each of those things
you want as much leverage as possible so
you want as little time as possible
required to get the most output and so I
have built acquisition. comom on
basically two primary thesis uh which
are in the logo which is this is a full
Crum for leverage for people that can't
see it's like a triangle yeah so it's
like a triangle or the Illuminati
because that always gets brought up um
right so we've got the full Crum for
leverage and then inside of it you have
supply and demand and I see those as the
two foundational principles of business
and so which is you need supply and
demand to have a business and then
leverage to get as much out of it as you
possibly can and so um when you're
looking at the assets that you have
assets can also be skills resources what
you have available to you now if you
have nothing then all you have is your
brain your hands and the time that you
have that you can put towards learning
something which is why I'm a big fan of
skill acquisition as one of the the
primary things that you can do is
educating yourself and not formally
educating but informally or
alternatively educating yourself on
super tactical things uh once you get
over the fear then you start asking okay
okay how do I let people know about my
stuff and what do I let them know right
and so you have to have something to
sell which is the offer and ideally you
want the offer to have as much leverage
as possible like so if you sold software
or you sold media those are things that
you can U cut once sell sell a thousand
times um if you have a conversion
mechanism it's like you can have it be
automated like a check out page or some
sort of video sales letter or something
like that where people just buy without
a phone salesperson if you add a phone
salesp person there's less leverage not
to say this wrong but you you want to
have the highest leverage opportunity
and then from a um from the
deliverability expect uh perspective um
I kind of talked about deliverability
first but uh from the advertising
perspective uh if you reach out to
people one-onone that's lower leverage
than being able to make one piece of
content that a million people see right
and so over time you go from low
leverage to high leverage uh where you
have the same inputs but you just get
significantly more for your output and
that fundamentally is like if we're
reasoning up from first principles how
do I get the said differently the
question someone I think is really
asking is how do I get the most for what
I put in and you have to reason within
your current context of your skills and
your resources and your assets in order
to derive that solution for you so if
someone walks up to you in the street
and they say Alex what idea should I
pursue I've just quit my job yeah right
so I would say um business idea is
typically come from one of three PS so
it comes from a pain that you're
currently experiencing a past profession
so the thing that you just quit or some
of the jobs that you just quit or a
passion MH so it's something that you're
inherently interested in that you would
spend your time doing
anyways uh some skill that you learned
while you were in the workforce which by
the way is one of the most proven ways
of making money because the economy has
already showed you that people are
willing to exchange money for that for
that specific job and so uh in the world
of gig economies and solar preneurs
every business can be dismantled into
just jobs being done and all of those
jobs can be fractionalized so anybody
like we look at any business you've got
sales you've got you've got marketing
you've got customer uccess you've got
you've got customer support if you want
to differentiate that you've got product
you've got design you've got web pages
there's you know there's so many
different components to a business you
just need to learn one of them and then
it's like boom you have a skill that you
can trade for money that you don't have
anybody else to report to um and then
pain is usually I think um in some ways
um sometimes one of the biggest drivers
it's like you had an eating allergy and
you couldn't find pancakes that dealt
with your specific eating all and you
bet that there's a decent amount of
other people with that allergy that also
like pancakes and so then you make
pancakes that that are delicious and
amazing that also cater to people with
that food allergy and then all of a
sudden like you have a business based on
pain and why why does that matter what
the Pain part um I what leverage and
Advantage does it give you for the next
five years I think that deep knowledge
of the prospect is Paramount or very
important for creating exceptional
products and you can either do that by
doing a ton and ton of research or by
being the Prospect and there's a certain
amount of like visceral feel that you'll
know like if someone wants to make a
nose product for breathing I have tried
every product since I was in eth grade
so it's been 20 plus years 30 whatever a
lot of years um that since then and I've
tried everything and so I know the pros
and cons of every product that exists on
the market and I can tell because and
I've done it's not like oh I tried it
for a day it's like I'll try things for
a month at a time and so I have so much
time exposure to this problem that I
have a lot of nuance in my opinion on
what's wrong with the solutions so I can
formulate a way better hypothesis on how
to fix it and that hypothesis would will
be for an investor so much more
compelling because you lead with a story
as opposed to logic I met the guy who uh
invested in Regal Cinemas which is the
probably the biggest chain in the US um
and it was when it was there was guy had
just one theater and it became now
obviously Co has disrupted that business
but you know for 20 you know years
whatever they they crushed and he said
it was so weird to say that oh Cinemas
are going to make a comeback because
they'd kind of been on a downturn or
something like that during the time that
he was making the investment and he said
the reason I decided to invest in it was
because this guy knew everything about
the business down to how much the cost
of Colonel of popcorn was and he just
knew it so like the back of his hand
that he was like this guy can't fail
like he just knows too much about this
business to not have it work and so he
investing in you know making gazillion
dollars and so but I think that that
deep understanding and if you look at
all of these the passion things you'll
have deep understanding because you're
spending spending all of your
discretionary time pursuing this passion
the pain you have a deep understanding
of the of the problem and the prospects
going through it because you've
experienced it probably for years now
the professional one I would say is a
bit of a shortcut um because if you're
quitting the job because you don't like
it and then you say I'm now going to do
this for myself well you're
okay um I mean well the the the one the
one proven point about that is that that
one is proven to work from an economic
perspective
you will be able to make money doing
that because you already have made money
doing it these other two are less proven
but sometimes have a significantly more
upside when you were talking about the
breathing example with your nose it's
funny because if you had sat down and
said to me Steve I've made these like
breathing nose strips um they are better
they're 20% more durable they expand
your nostrils by 20% it is multiples
less compelling than you telling me that
story you just said about being a kid
having breathing problems trying to
solve this problem for yourself and it's
funny cuz that that story you told
versus the sort of rational logical
approach or the benefits approach is
your marketing campaign for the next
five years on Tik Tok and Instagram it's
I had a problem I solved it I tried
everything and solved it for myself
there's almost like nothing more
compelling and believable no we see that
in Dragon's Den it we'll be sat there
listening to these pictures all day then
someone will come in and say I had ADHD
I tried Energy Products they all made me
crash so I went out and solved this
problem for myself and we're on edge cuz
we almost can't argue with it yeah at
that point you know yeah so basic has
this great framework where he talks
about missionaries and mercenaries and
so it's kind of like you have the guy
who says okay I looked at market trends
and this is a growing category and you
know I surveyed people and this was the
you know the result that came back and
so I believe that if we time this
product right uh at this point in the
market we'll achieve huge you know a
mass adoption blah blah blah blah and
it's like loging your way through and to
be fair some people do you know do make
it work but the missionaries are the
ones that end up making the most money
because is like they do it sure for the
money cuz the business has to have some
economic engine behind it but really
because they viscerally experienced this
problem and don't want anyone else to
solve to deal with that problem either
and so like if I were to tell that story
like you were saying like when I was in
eth grade it was the first year that I I
started really noticing I couldn't
breathe at night and so I learned how to
fall asleep with my hand on my face like
this so that my nostril would so I could
fall asleep in my hand with because you
there's no actually other because you
can't hold your because you fall asleep
right and so if I fall asleep with my
hand like this right like like I'm on
the couch and I fall asleep like that it
keeps my nostril open and I can fall
asleep and it doesn't move and so that's
how I learned how to sleep for years uh
before founding like just like simple
nasal strips and things like that but
there's tons of problems with with those
solutions that exist right now that I
won't get into but um maybe someday I'll
make a nasal product I think I mean
literally just
delivered [__] I can tell you if you
put if you put every product in front of
me that exists right now I can tell you
what's wrong with it cuz I've tried I've
tried literally all of them not like I'm
pretty obsessive and so like I've tried
all of them missing opportunity here
I've tried I've tried the ones from
Europe I've tried the like not just us
like I've tried I've tried every product
that exists on Amazon I've tried all the
ones from foreign countries every every
fan or follower who sends me a product
that is a nasal company that's new um I
will try the product I still do um and
there has yet there's there's yet to be
one that has truly solved it I mean you
should I
mean but I I think in some ways uh so
this is actually a really good meta uh
concept here which is that um if you
want to be compelling a demonstration or
a model is always more compelling than
anything else and
so me even going through that entire
narrative right is taking everyone else
who's been listening to this on some
Journey it's like if you want to make a
compelling pitch for a business it's
like we pretty much just kind of went
through one um and so that's that's
really what it comes down to you're like
well what do I do with my business it's
like
create your Narrative of why you're even
doing this and if you can explain to
somebody why why they should care about
this problem or more specifically why
you care about this
problem I'll tell you this more
investors will like I might be like I
don't care about kitchen utensils but
this girl certainly does and I'm sure
there's other women who do too and what
everyone wants to see is Obsession and
unfortunately in like some of the world
I know more in the UK than the US now
like that kind of perspective of like
just being all in obsessed with stuff
has almost been like um bastard or like
you know been um
chastised and I but the people who are
obsessed with the ones who changed the
world at least changed their world and
um and I think that so a very close
friend of mine um did all the uh Olympic
teams um nutrition and supplementation
stuff for uh a country overseas and he
said you know the difference between
Champions and everyone else and I was
like what he said everyone always looks
at them and says what do champions have
that I don't have and he said it's they
have it backwards he said it's what do
Champions not have that I have it's what
do they lack and it's an off button they
just don't stop and so in dealing with
the gold medals he's like they just
never stop they just can't stop
everything in their life is geared
towards one goal and so finding that
thing and they approach everything in
their life that way and I think that
that level of obsession of around like
everything that you touch on a daily
basis is required for really getting to
where you want to
go so interesting because as we spoke
there about the reason why the story was
so much more compelling it was back to
the amigdala it was back to emotion
right and it's funny because we we said
a second ago that when someone's
thinking about quitting a job they're
like SE in their amigdala humans run
mostly on their amydala so when we think
about pitching we should really be
aiming at the same part of the brain
which is what you did when you showed me
that you were sleeping as a kid with
your hand stretching across your face I
immediately felt sorry for you felt
sympathy and I immediately believed that
if anyone's going to solve this problem
it is this [__] guy who's been
through that pain I've had two surgeries
both of them didn't really work like I
mean like i' I've got the story my
girlfriend's the same what really two
surgeries but she's coming up to her
third one now we've tried all the nose
drips I saw you wearing one I bought
that one for her yeah um and so there's
a lot of people watching right now and
there's something going on with these
bloody [__] like noses yeah people
shouldn't like yeah we're doing
something I I feel like I may it popular
some of the N Stuff yeah but D making it
cool pain profession passion yeah
ideally you have all three if you have
all three then you're I mean my God
you're set like if you if basically pain
created an obsession and for some reason
you also were doing something like that
in your work like I feel like the
likelihood that you don't succeed is
almost nothing you only need one of
those three you just pick one like if
you just had one pain that you had that
you wanted to overcome or one passion
that you were just inherently interested
cuz sometimes passion has nothing to
like you might just be really into model
cars it's okay well there's a lot of
businesses that you can build around
model cars it's like you can you can
manufacture model cars uh you can have
services around model cars making them
faster because some people race model
cars you can uh be a collector and start
flipping model cars like you can just
make media around how to build them and
then have a media company around like
there's so many different components of
any Obsession or interest that you can
make I I was talking to um on one of the
future episodes of uh mosy tank uh
that's coming out we have a guy who's um
he loves Dungeons and Dragons so he's an
it he's an IT guy and just loves
Dungeons and Dragons and he was like I
just want this to make enough money that
I don't have to do ID
anymore and but it was so pure you know
what I mean and so I was like we're
going to help you do this and so we kind
of walk through the business plan for it
but like is he going to be a billionaire
no but I also don't think that's his
goal and so I think being really clear
on what you want um is important so if
you're like I want to be the richest
person in the world I think it's a
terrible goal but if you want that great
well you have to have a multi-trillion
dollar idea because now because by the
time that occurs there's already multi-
trillion dollar companies now so you got
to be looking at like Deca trillion
dollar opportunity and so believe it or
not basically the bigger the goal the
narrow the scope of the path to get
there if you're like I want to make $10
million like you can literally do that
in almost any business you want to make
$100 million probably still almost any
business you can do it on a long enough
time rise and you can do it a trillion
or decad trillion it's going to be some
sort of tech it's probably going to have
some sort of AI
like and so you get basically the bigger
the goal is the narrower the scope of of
how to get there but the vast majority
of people were like I want to be the
richest man in the world it's just
because they don't know how to like
really think through it and be like all
right well after like a hundred there's
really nothing you can't do except buy
more big things but like in terms of
your actual consumption maybe even 20 is
like you can only eat at restaurants
that go so expensive you can only stay
at the best hotels you can only drive
the nicest cars you can do that with
about 25
million what do you think the cheat code
is then so I've got my idea what do you
think the cheat code is in 2025
to win at the game of attention like
there's got to be some new rules here
because we've got AI we've got new
platforms we've got New
Media you know I'm give you a
hypothetical business idea I'm going to
be a personal trainer okay and I pick
that because everyone can do it and it's
it's a saturated industry if I'm if I'm
a personal trainer in the
2025 how should I be thinking about
building attention mhm so I'll tell you
what I wouldn't do first which is I
don't think I try and out science the
science people uh because like unless
you have some PhD there is a PhD guy
who's already jacked who's making
content and so he's more knowledgeable
and more Jack than you so you're not
going to win there and so I think in the
game of attention it's trying to find
what is unique right and so how do you
how do you quote stand out when
everyone's loud and this is going to
sound trite but your fingerprint is
unique literally from a biological
perspective but so is your life and your
experiences and so there's there's real
Alpha or or benefit to be had above
normal level of effort by leaning into
you and so what makes every person
unique is what makes their content
unique and so trying to be like oh I
want to make content like Alex is
probably not the best way to do it
because you're not going to beat me at
being me but you'll beat me at being you
and so it's basically your flavor of
media so like for me it's like you know
what is you know my brand to to to to
model this it's like well I have
elements of flly philosophy that are in
my brand well do I need that no but
that's like kind of me um I obviously
talk a ton about business marketing and
sales promotion conversion those are all
things that I spend a lot of time
thinking about and so a lot of my
content about that um Fitness is a
component of my life and so there's
light sprinkling of Fitness uh in my
content also I come from a background of
Fitness um with the the with gym launch
and and the companies that I owned
before that and so that would make sense
that and I've my wife Lea and so that
sprinkled in and so like those are
basically the components of My Life um
and so that's what kind of shines
through in my content I consume a ton of
comedy and so sometimes you'll see some
dry humor and dark humor that that
shines through um but that's me now you
have all of those little buckets of you
and not only are those buckets unique
but also the proportions of those
buckets will be different and so maybe
your philosophy is way bigger or maybe
Fitness part is way bigger but I think
what makes the truly unique personal
trainer or Fitness brand is leaning
into people being interested in you for
being you and then being like by the way
I have Fitness stuff if you want to buy
it from me and I think the key part is
the vast majority of products and
services are commone tized there you're
not you're probably not going to be
significantly better than other trainers
just being real you probably aren't but
you will be different than them and we
want to lean on I I want to buy Fitness
from somebody and so I might as well buy
from her or I might as well buy it from
him so you're taking basically this
audience that would buy from anyone but
your brand premium gets them to want to
buy it from you we think about Prime for
example with the drink the drink company
like it's a it's a drink that there's
other products that already exist in the
marketplace that satisfy the same thing
as Prime but if you are agnostic to that
brand and you have brand Affinity with
that that Creator then you're like well
then if I have two things that are
basically equal and I just like this guy
better I'm just going to as long as the
prices are comparable I'll just vote
with my dollars here and so I think that
if you're a personal trainer in 2025
um it's going to be longterm it's going
to be building the content short term
it's going to be Outreach to people that
you know and making a compelling offer
to get people to try to work with you
this overarching point you said there
about being yourself as I was thinking
about it I was thinking gosh do you know
what the thing that all of my favorite
creators and the Really successful
creators have in common is they all have
and I use these words intentionally the
courage to be themselves yeah because I
tell you what when I was starting out as
a content creator and I looked back I
was showing one of my team members the
other day the things I used to post it
was like everything happens for a reason
it was cringe cliche fluff and it took
me several years to almost relax into
just realizing that the game here was to
get to the point where I could be myself
on the internet and actually that was
the most high value because of you know
of what you said it's the uniquest part
of me but the courage to be yourself and
it's it's it is the winning strategy for
2025 and it's I think um it's leaning
into it and the thing is is that
everything in you wants to not do that
I'm not really sure why um but I was
having a conversation with Ila I want to
say two nights ago or three nights ago
um I got a bunch of flack for uh some X
poost that I made and she just looked at
me and she was like never dilute
yourself because I was like maybe I was
like maybe I shouldn't talk about this
stuff like maybe I should just like you
know I'll just lean off and she was like
never dilute yourself like there are so
many more people people who need that
message than people who are hating that
message and she was like and if you're
actually going to make a difference in a
lot of people's lives there's going to
be an equal and opposing force of people
who want to reject that and she's like
this just comes with the territory of
like how big of an impact you want to
have and it was just such a great you
know wife talking to husband you know
conversation um that I guess for me at
the end of the day I'm like as long as
she thinks I'm cool like you know I I'll
keep doing it but um but yeah it's just
uh because the diluted down version all
all of a sudden becomes everyone else's
stuff well you said a second ago you're
not sure why that is but by very
definition of it being unique that that
means that there is no blueprint yeah
there is no person that's come before
you and proven that it works so the
courage of being yourself there's only
one Steven Bartlett so if I'm truly
myself it's never been done before that
means that the risks are unknown the
upside is also unknown yeah but so again
going back to to our our hate of
uncertainty it makes much more sense for
me to try and copy you because I can see
a blueprint there than to run the risk
of being yourself and you are someone
have to say who is running the risk of
being yourself and actually as someone
who's observing you now I know who you
are and I now know who you're not and
it's important for me as someone that
follows your work yeah that actually I
see consistency because I've established
Alex os's values yeah and anything that
diverts from that is actually less
valuable because you say it's more like
everyone else and the things I've had
before but it's also it wouldn't feel
true anymore yeah and um and this is
something that even as a Creator myself
I I have to fall back on is my audience
know who I am now For Better or For
Worse yeah they're not going to learn
anything new yeah you know what's really
interesting is navigating the gray and
so there are contradictory ideals and
this is what I kind of come back to when
I'm when I'm like worried about these
types of things which is like you've got
mercy and you've got
Justice they are somehow opposed and
they are both ideals so how can we
believe in Justice and also believe in
Mercy at the same time and so and I mean
there's you can have variety and
consistency like there there's there
there's tons of examples of this right
um and so we have these diametrically
opposed ideals which means that if you
ever say by the way I'm a little bit
more of a Justice guy like I understand
they had a hard time but at some point
you got to take your own personal
accountability so like no you're not
going to get out of the speeding ticket
you're going to get like that's what's
just on the other hand it's like hey
single mom uh gets pulled over uh for
driving too fast you know what maybe we
let her off today both of those stories
fair but you're going to get attacked by
the other side that has an ideal that
all humans try to strive for and it will
feel terrible because they are right and
so what and so I think that like
understanding that that conflict will
always exist between two apparent ideals
that and this is fun this is
foundationally what politics is right is
that there are two apparent ideals that
bet all of us I would say 99% of people
would say justice is good Mercy is good
variety is good consistency is good
right respecting values is good so is
innovating and doing new things how can
we have both of these contradictory
ideas and at the same time like navigate
that without conflict you can't because
how much becomes the question and so I
think that your thumbprint as a Creator
is that when someone presents a
scenario and says does Alex choose Mercy
or Justice in the scenario that your
audience says gets it right and so I
think about um branding in general as
basically a mosaic that you get to
create and so like each piece of content
is a little tile that has a single color
on it and if you just see one piece of
short content of of Steven Bartlett you
you don't really have an idea who Steven
Marlett is but if you see a thousand of
them all of a sudden you zoom out and
you get to see the whole picture and I
think that that the the colors that are
in those mosaics and the and the
proportion of how many yellows how many
Reds how many greens and where are they
is what ultimately creates the brand and
so um because people want to try and
turn this into okay so I make one post
about family I make one post about
finances I make one post about whatever
right it's like I don't think that's how
it works I think you just be you and
then those proportions will naturally
shake out and also over time you will
change and so it also makes sense that
your brand will change and was I had to
recile which likeit I don't know if I
agree as with some of the things that I
said years ago the thing is in the
digital world like my first podcast was
2017 July of 2017
wow episode 8 is called stop
branding I have changed my views on
branding to be clear yeah but that first
podcast is 90 days from when I lost
everything MH and so the entire the
entire like horm Journey if you want to
call that from zero to billion is
actually documented 90 days from zero
it's all there and so you can see how my
my my views on business have changed and
like what I was thinking about at every
kind of portion of my life and so I had
to just be okay with the idea that like
I will change my mind because I will get
new information because let's take the
alternative stance if I get new
information do I just keep parting what
you did before this is also an issue
with politics right is that like he's
flippy floppy it's like so they're not
allowed to learn
yeah you've been in politics like you
haven't learned anything like no stances
Chang like I feel like we should be able
to do that obviously Brands don't work
that way so it has to be gradual over
time which I think if you were always
you at all times it will be gradual over
time yeah I don't know I think a lot of
the time we end up over focusing on
unreasonable people which is a war we
can never win anyway because you say
that to me I think so I think it was
like I had this uh this guy therapist on
my podcast who I then spoke to after the
podcast and he basically broke it down
to me he was like there's 20% of people
that just absolutely love everything you
will ever do like you could say anything
you change they're [__] they're just
super fans there's 80% of people that
are actually like he said there 60% of
people that are really reasonable they
don't speak yeah they just watch they're
like reasonable and there's 20% of
people with no matter what the [__] you
do they're going to be he is like don't
spend your life focusing on the the 20%
the quiet majority the 60% they don't
tweet they don't they just chill and
then the 20% you know they your
evangelists but you know I find myself
falling into the Trap of the so what's
interesting about the 20% is that like
um I was thinking about this today the
your so no matter who you are you're
going to be disliked period because no
one's liked by everyone so we just have
like let's if we can accept that as a
premise right no one's going to be like
for everyone you might as well be
disliked for being you than being
somebody else amen am at the most basic
level you the being disliked is a fixed
cost and and I think to to to to take
the opposite pers perspective I think it
is far better to be disliked for being
who you are than loved for someone
you're not yeah and one one of the great
entrepreneurs I interviewed on the
podcast said to me when it comes to
marketing and branding and this sort of
attention conversation we're having she
said to me that in order to reach your
80% you have to piss off your 20% or at
least be willing to piss off your 20% it
was Jane warang who's the founder of
demica global Beauty um brand with I
think hundreds of thousands of people
and she sat and said to get to your 80%
you have to be willing to piss off no
actually [__] she said to get to your
20% you have to be willing to piss off
the
80% and from a branding perspective it
makes so much sense because when you
stand for something clearly which you do
you inadvertently stand against a you
have to if you draw a line there's
there's there's a side on either side
and you have to say like I'm on this
side did you see that Nike ad dude I was
just going to say that I was just going
to say that yeah the William defo ad
yeah like what's yours is mine and
what's mine is mine yeah just like it
was actually the first time that I'd
seen something from Nike in a long time
that I was like this is what built this
brand and I think they have they had
lost their way for a while yeah uh with
like the wokeism and all that stuff and
I think it's like Nike means Victory
which means people have to lose yeah and
they were willing to say that for the
first time ever right I posted it on my
LinkedIn and it was 50/50 yeah I'd say
it was actually more like 80% of people
were either neutral or pissed off and 20
yeah and 20% of people were like that is
me I am a Nike person and for me when I
saw that I thought I want to buy some
Nike shorts yeah it was I mean it was
the first time I actually felt like I
had positive brand Affinity towards the
brand in a long time how important in
this game of building and starting is
people
oh very a hiring question I'll tell you
why I asked this question because when I
look at my portfolio early stage first
Founders never seem to understand the
importance of hiring in people yeah and
I bang my head against the wall trying
to convince them that actually the game
they're playing is in the company group
of people yeah so I would I'll start
with one thing and then I'll answer the
question so I was talking to um a mentor
of mine and he said when I was in my 20s
it was all about the destination he said
when I got to my 30s I realized it was
all about the journey he said when I was
in my 40s I realized it was about the
company and I was like I can't wait till
you're in your
50s the next one right but I thought
that was such a great like such a
profound shift in terms of how he
thought about his business success cuz
he was like I don't need to be a you
know a Deca billionaire he's like I'm
I'm cool where I'm at um and now I just
want to do it with people that I like
and so to the question about um people
overall I believe that the potential of
an organization is directly correlated
with the aggregate intellectual
horsepower of everyone contained within
it and so if you are the smartest person
in the business then and you can do
every everyone's job better than
everyone in your company then it means
that the limit of the business is purely
based on one person's horsepower and one
person's life
experiences and that will be the cap and
basically it doesn't matter how smart
you are you can't live a 100 lifetimes
like you can learn quickly sure there's
some people who can learn faster than
others but you're not going to be able
to live a thousand lifetimes and
so as a business grows more expertise is
required and I think the easiest liit
test for this is if you look at the
richest people in the World almost none
of them Own 100% of their business so
number one most of them don't even own
50 like most of them are small
percentages Jensen WIS at 4% for NVIDIA
basos is at seven or 9% for for Amazon
uh I think elon's at 20 for Tesla like
small percentages and it's because it
takes a lot of horses to take a chariot
to the Moon right and so basically as
you put in more intellectual horsepower
the potential peak of the business goes
so much so much higher so much faster
Keith rabois from um he's one of the
original PayPal Mafia guys has a really
good analogy for this and he talks about
it in terms of barrels and ammunition
and he says so as soon as you get some
product Market fit the business starts
to grow and you say okay we need to
start shipping things faster and this
works the same with a Services business
a physical products business software
business the concept's the same and said
so what happens is you then hire a lot
of people and you assume that your
throughput is going to increase
proportionally so we have 10 people we
hire 50 we should 5xr output and then
you quickly realize that that is not the
case and so what happens is uh there are
people who are rate limiters for or or
and organization and those are the
barrels so think about like a civil war
Barrel you know Old Cannon and you've
got these cannonballs next to it he said
most people are ammunition and so you
bring more ammunition but you're still
going to be limited by the one barrel
capacity of how how many shots can get
taken by the barrel and so you need to
find more barrels so you have to go from
one barrel to two barrels two barrels to
three barrels and that becomes an
increase in capacity or throughput for
the organization and there are very few
of those in a different um I can't
remember the law but it's some
organizational uh law but uh the square
root of the number of people in a
company generate 50% of the work so you
have 100 people in an organization 10
people are responsible for 50% of the
value that's created facts right anybody
who's been in like you're like of like
preach and so the thing is is I think
the real game of Entrepreneurship is
that your standards rise over time and
it's unfortunate because we we hear
things that other entrepreneurs tell us
it's all about the people stupid and
then you're like sure but look at my and
it's like no you're not hearing it and I
don't know there are some I think
Williamson talks about this how there's
like some lessons that for some reason
it's like we have to learn for ourselves
I still believe that that it's like we
can operationalize this at a lower level
so that we don't have to learn it for
ourselves but like I'm convinced I
haven't figured it out yet but um so
every entrepreneur can can can can
resonate with this which is every
business that I've started I've gotten
to the success of the business Prior Way
faster and I kind of liken it to a video
game where it's like you beat level one
and then you know you get to level two
and it's like you spend months trying to
beat this boss and you finally figure
how to beat the boss and it's like great
and you spend another three months
getting beating Boss 3 and let's say you
start the game over with a new character
it's like you just zoom through level
one two and three and then you get to
level four and you're like shoot now I
got to spend time it's like virgin land
like I don't know how to beat this yet
and so I think that that happens for
archetype finding for skill and talent
within an organization and so say that
again so if you have functions across an
organization there are people who are
going to drive results within that
function and the first time you hire a
salesperson for example you don't know
what you're looking for and so you just
hire a human who says they can sell and
maybe they can maybe they can't and then
you cycle you try to train them that
doesn't work does work whatever and then
finally you let's say you cycle through
three sales guys and finally you find a
killer and then you have this
recognition you're like okay that's what
I'm looking for and then all of a sudden
you try and approximate that person or
that archetype as as much as you can and
so when you start your second company
you're like oh I can quickly staff up
sales because I know what I'm looking
for but then you're like shoot I've
never really nailed sales manager yet
and so then you cycle through you start
you start whacking away at the boss and
then you have to end up firing the boss
at level because you're like oh God this
didn't work and then six months are gone
because you had to find them recruit
them hire them train them and then find
out they sucked and then start over
again and maybe it takes 18 months to
really find the right sales manager and
then you're like okay I know what that
looks like but I still don't have a
director of marketing what does that
look like and so it's basically
developing this pattern recognition
across all functions of the business so
you that you know what exceptional looks
like and then over time what happens is
as a business grows your ability to
attract Talent increases and so then
your standards also grow and then you
find out that there's even more Nuance
to this which is that there's a director
of sales at a $1 to10 million level
which is a different looking person
from10 to100 million level and it
continues to go all the way up and so
it's basically building this repertoire
of identifying patterns and what if you
talk to I would say more experienced
entrepreneurs now they don't talk about
building businesses it's like assembling
them you just assemble the pieces and
you just know that this is how it's all
going to flow together and that
fundamentally is basically what I try
and decode within the content that I
have so that it's like here's a pattern
for how you recognize this here's a
pattern for how you recog ize this so
that you can just move faster through
the levels um to get to where you want
to go and so to loop back to the
original question which is how important
are people in an organization people are
the organization and so if you ever want
to build Enterprise Value it's building
the collective consciousness of the
organization the skills and how they
collaborate together towards a specific
outcome and so knowing how to staff that
up is the
job I think the reason why first-time
Founders feel like they have to learn
this lesson themselves is because
everything you've just said is an
unknown unknown like they don't even
know that they don't know it so they
stumbl they hire the sales guy because
they were their friend from high school
and then [__] and then they go
through the pain and I say this because
I'm so unbelievably passionate about it
I went through the same BS I hired my
friend who worked at Prada to be art
account I hired a guy I met at a rap
battle to be my marketing director who
who was literally playing video games
for a living at 30 years old um and I
went through this whole thing and then
at maybe three four years into my first
business I accidentally hired someone
great like through no intention of
myself accidentally I saw the net impact
they had and I thought oh my God over
the coming years I learned that the game
the fundamental game here is as you said
assembling the best group of
people how if I'm a firsttime Founder
can I put a system in place to to make
sure that even though I don't know what
a good salesperson looks like yeah even
though I don't know what an ex good
person looks like I still attract them
to my company
the simplest way of doing it so the
simplest way of attracting somebody to
your business when you don't know how to
do the job or know who to look for is to
unfortunately do the job yourself and
then once you can break down the job we
follow 3DS which is um document
demonstrate duplicate that's how we
train anybody so first you have to
document everything that you do to
successfully do the job and that's
step-by step into a checklist then you
demonstrate so you do do this checklist
in front of the person that you're
trying to bring on then they duplicate
they do the checklist in front of you
what's interesting about that three-step
process is that you'll often find when
you try to demonstrate following the
checklist you don't follow your
checklist and so then you have to adjust
the checklist until you actually follow
the checklist and then when you can
consistently follow that checklist and
get the output then you can have them do
that checklist and so I think this is
why bootstrap Founders uh I think often
times will find they they tend to know
more about more things because they had
to learn them in order to teach them now
what's really interesting about what you
said about accidentally finding that
that star at 3 or four years in is that
I think that happens to almost everyone
well hopefully it the people who end up
making it it happens to almost everyone
um because then you realize oh my God
like if I had four of these people like
we could change the world right say
something as well the other Epiphany
Revelation I had was the star hired
Stars yeah right and so I think of her
name's casy leison of the 10 people she
then hired nine of them became the best
people in my company and also I'm not
going to say his name but someone else
in my business a c player yeah of the 10
people he hired yeah he and everyone he
hired was F so one of the it's so as you
go up in the organization with hires the
risk and reward goes up and so that's
something that a lot of people don't
like talking about but I will um which
is if you hire somebody and let's say
that they're not a cultural fit maybe
they have the skills uh or they are a
cultural fit and they don't have the
skill fit and they're a leader
what you find often and it sucks is that
everyone it's almost like it's like a
tree that has an entirely rotten Branch
it's like you end up having to scoop out
three4 of what was underneath because
you realize that they were ineffective
or they just were against the actual
mission of the business and it's it's
harrowing and it's horrible but I try to
give this analogy um to my team because
we've had to do it in every business we
like it happens it's just part of
business
is if somebody goes to the bar and
you're at the club and somebody racks up
you know just ordering shots for
everybody shots shot shot shot shot
shots and then that guy dips that guy
leaves we all have to pay the bill in
the moment when we pay the bill when we
scoop out the Deadwood when we scoop out
the rot from the organization it feels
horrible but that pain isn't because the
scooping out the rot is bad it's because
we planted it on bad ground or because
that guy ordered all these shop but
couldn't afford it and I have a
different analogy because I really want
to drive this home because I think it's
important is that in the in the
relationship world if one spouse tells
the other spouse hey I cheated on you I
had an affair that moment is incredibly
painful for both parties and so what it
makes you think is oh this was wrong to
tell the truth but it's not wrong to
tell the truth what's wrong was cheating
when you tell the truth is when you make
it right and so the pain that you often
have to to encounter in organization
feels wrong but is right because that
was you're you're writing a wrong and
that's where the pain occurs and that's
why so many businesses stay stuck is
because they have this affair they have
this person and they're unwilling to
have that hard conversation or multiple
in order to make it right and they stay
stuck for
years this is
another quality of really successful
Founders that I've noticed which is what
you just said is the ability to have the
hard conversation sooner and in my first
um in my Folia where there's firsttime
Founders they're coming to me and in our
like uh monthly meeting saying God
there's this guy who's running the Ecom
Division and he's so bad and I'm having
to do the job for him what do I do about
it Steve what do you
think but then they come back to me two
weeks later and they're like he's still
there yeah right A year later and you're
like it's still John you know you're
like what are we talking about here I
remember asking him when at such meeting
uh does JN know that you're unhappy with
him oh yeah
no so there this quiet dis
faction which I think is a virus right
right and what what no one wants to
discuss is the fact that everyone else
knows John sucks amen and that that
becomes the minimum standard for what is
acceptable for excellence in the
organization and so I think like so if
brand is what your reputation is
externally I think culture is kind of
what reputation is internally and so I
Define culture operationalized because I
think culture is a very fluffy word what
does that mean right it's the rules that
govern reinforcement within organization
what do we reward what do we punish and
so the thing is is that there's
realistically there's like people have
values because they're bundled terms
that lad up many behaviors if I said
Rolls-Royce probably would have some
value that's quality over speed probably
right and so they would have that but
somebody would have to say like what
does that mean right well we hope that
we use this as a decision-making filter
for how it affects behaviors on every
situation so that when you're in the
should I go fast or should I make it
right you make it right and there are
other organizations kind of like the
speed uh justice and mercy speed and
quality both of them are important and
sometimes they sit diametrically opposed
and so it's like we have to say where do
we sit in the gray so that we can
duplicate decision-making across the
organization so that we can maintain the
culture and so culture uh you know lless
this is a lot but culture I think this
is a drer quote actually U culture
Trump's strategy like twice week and
every day on Sunday if you have a
mediocre strategy but an unbelievable
culture you will crush somebody who has
a great strategy and a terrible culture
because culture Lads up to Performance
and execution and almost every business
is limited by execution not strategy
most business strategies isn't that
complicated like let's do a really good
job so good that people tell their
friends about us and as long as we have
enough gross margin we'll make money
it's not that hard right it's just that
the doing it is the hard part and so so
when we have these uh they are the
spoken and unspoken roles mostly
unspoken if someone shows up 3 minutes
late to a meeting and there's 10 people
in the meeting and it's supposed to be a
marketing meeting and I'm there if I
don't say anything I have now said we
have an unspoken rule that if someone
shows up 3 minutes slate to a meeting
it's okay I've I've reinforced that rule
now if I I've reinforce it by not
punishing the behavior or at least
calling it out um on the flip side if
someone comes in and I berate them
that's also a way of changing Behavior
maybe not the right way to do it um but
I could then like what do you do in that
situation someone shows up 3 minutes
late um first off you would probably
sideline with that person be like hey
I don't know if you realized that you
were 3 minutes late what happened and
they're like I was on a client call um
it went late I'm really sorry or I was
on a sales call for me in my
organization clients in sales like will
take priority so if you have a meeting
and you're on a sale and you're about to
close it close the sale right but if you
were just doing nothing and we have this
meeting then this is the priority and so
the next time we hop on I'll be like hey
guys I just want to address something
John was late he was late because of
aale call or when I dm' him right as he
got on late I would say hey make sure
you say that and be like hey guys sorry
I was late I was on a sales call and
then I would say that's fine you're good
to go always go make money yeah and then
I'm reinforcing the right thing yeah
right and so I think we're very big on
rapid feedback um in the moment because
that's how you train Behavior so if you
look
at if so there's tons of studies on this
but basically if you want to train a dog
right um and you want it to sit if you
have it sit and then immediately give a
biscuit it learns really quickly if you
have it sit and then wait 10 seconds
before you give a biscuit it takes like
three times as many repetitions for it
to learn that the that the sitting gets
the biscuit if you wait more than a
minute it never learns really it just
you can see the learning curve the
amount of repetitions just skyrockets
until eventually there is no amount but
here's where it gets crazy that biscuit
is still reinforcing something just not
sitting it's reinforcing the thing that
just came before it so if we want people
to do something we have to change in the
moment and so when we train and I think
that we're we're a training organization
we're very good at training whatever
skills um is engineering ways to give
many feedback loops in a short period of
time around uh specific skills so I use
sales because it's one that everyone
understands if you're training a script
with someone at the if you if you let
someone read through a script and then
at the end you say Hey you know here
here's the things you could have done
better blah this is how 95% of people
train it's also doesn't work mhm we set
the premise with you're going to read
through the script and in the first 30
minutes we might get through a third of
it and I'm going to probably stop you
like 30 times and if that happens it
means we're doing it right so we set the
premise that I'm going to interrupt you
a bunch of times and as soon as you say
the first line I'm going be like stop
say it again say it like this go again
and then they're like okay and they say
it and I'm like awesome job do it again
awesome job do it again so I reinforce
it as many times I can okay go to the
second sentence right now do first and
second right do second and third right
and you keep working working your way
through until eventually they just say
like a whistle they can sing it because
they've also had so many repetitions and
so many feedback loops that they're like
this is what it sounds like when it's
right and I think that the vast vast
majority of organizations have no idea
how to train and their entire training
their their way of getting Talent is
just uh let's hire 10 and we'll just see
who works out rather than being able to
take someone and level them up and I
think that the ability to train is one
of the largest Alphas that exist in
organizations because if you can buy
Talent at at B skill and get them to A+
then you net the Delta and profit
between what you had to attract and pay
the person to come and what they perform
at if you have to use a picking strategy
then you have to pay for ex for current
market rate of the skill and so you
actually eat into margin because you
don't know how to train there are
advantages to speed and sometimes it
still makes sense to bring in the talent
because maybe the training requires so
much time that it's not worth it and so
from a hiring perspective because I we
were just talking this is the theme we
always want to hire for the smallest
skilled deficiency and so in low skilled
labor for example if we have a cupcake
uh Bakery and I need somebody to work
the counter that is pretty low skilled
labor and so if there's a number of
skills that are required being able to
be on time smile be nice those things
are bundled terms that have many skills
underneath of them right whereas
teaching someone how to use the register
might take like 30 minutes and so it
makes sense to hire for attitude and
then train aptitude when you have low
skilled
labor when you have really high skilled
labor I can't teach someone 10 years of
being a CFO for m&a just just an extreme
example right and so in that instance we
still hire for the smallest skilled
deficiency but I can probably teach
someone to be nice under these
circumstances faster than I can teach
them to be a CFO if they have everything
that I want here obviously you would
want both but the world is imp perfect
and so we just try to hire for the
smallest SK Gap and attitude is a series
of skills and so instead instead of
thinking of things as an attitude and
aptitude just think of everything as
skills and then we hire always for the
smallest efficiency mhm the thing that's
easiest to train up yeah okay one of the
things that's so Central to that is we
were saying about giving people feedback
and I wrote down most companies and most
entrepreneurs and Founders are scared to
give Petty feedback oh because if like I
might notice you're making a slight
error yeah but if feels Petty to point
that out it feels like I'm some kind of
rude dictator yeah why is that so
important and how do you create an
environment I'm totally good with that
yeah I a lot of people aren't I I have
lots of managers on my teams and they
don't want to offend people their
Central focus is too much on being nice
and it's dude kind not nice it's one of
our one of our one of our cultural you
know I wouldn't say it's not the one on
the site but things that are repeated
internally all the time K not nice is
one of the big ones which is that you're
actually being unkind to someone by not
maximizing the likely that they succeed
in their
role and people don't lose jobs because
typically because of one thing it's
usually a hundred small things and so if
we can immediately fix those hundred
Small Things most people want to do a
good job and most people want to succeed
and most people want to move up and we
can maximize the likelihood that those
things occur if we help them
and this is where the culture is there
if on that first day like I said we say
we're going to work through the script
and we're only going to get through a
third of it I'm going to stop you 30
times to correct you we've already kind
of set the expectations of how things go
here like we will fix things and we will
fix them fast and it's understanding the
difference and I we teach our teams this
is what is the difference between an
insult and criticism so criticism is a
discrepancy between actual and desired
so you were supposed to be on time and
this week you were late twice and so
that is
discrepancy and you're lazy is the
insult and so the Judgment that's
associated with the discrepancy is
insulting someone pointing out the
discrepancy is purely criticism and
that's objective and so if you want to
improve the team remove insults focus on
criticism and tell them what to do
instead and so the easiest way to think
through this I think is stop start keep
so I'll tell you a real story so we had
um we had a we had a a director level so
a relatively High person um in the
organization who was having um behavior
issues uh oh said differently everyone
thinks you're a
dick and so so he ended up making his
rounds of the executive team uh and
having a sit down with all of them
because he was really proficient at the
scale he's high performer like good at
what he does just no one liked him and
so um he talks to four different
Executives and the behavior didn't
change and so he finally came to to my
office and he was like a little bit
worried and he was and he was like am I
going to get fired and I was like no HR
will fire you if you're going to get
fired you're not going to meet with me
what are we talking about um but when we
sat down I said Okay I want to be clear
I want to decrease the likelihood that
people call you a dick in the future I
was said does that sound like an
agreeable goal and he said yeah I don't
I want that I was like okay good I also
don't care if you are a dick I just care
that everyone else thinks you are and so
I just want to minimize likely that I
get drawn into this ever again
so the reasons that they are calling you
a dick we need to dive into that because
every other conversation you'd had with
you know some of the leaders was just
like hey man stop being a dick and the
thing is is what do you do with that
nothing you just get insulted
and then you have nothing to do and so
instead it's like okay when you cut
people off when they
talk stop start keep doing do this
instead shut up so when someone else is
talking wait until they finish and if
you're not sure ask if they're done it's
like
okay when uh you give unsolicited advice
on how they should run their Department
don't or ask if they want it if if they
say no don't say anything and so we
identified three or four behaviors that
he was doing and I said just do this
instead and literally the next week
people were like what happened to him
he's like a new man and the thing is is
that he wasn't a dick he just didn't
know how to behave and so if you want to
teach teaching has to come from
conditions and a behavior and so if
you're trying to get someone to be
different you have to give them the
conditions under which they need to
change so when someone says this if this
occurs there's a condition and then this
is you need to do and so the vast
majority of training that exists does
none of that it's just people shouting
at each other insulting them and saying
hey you need to level up you need to you
need to get you know you need to
increase your performance what does that
mean and so I think one of the easiest
ways to identify the actual Behavior
because that's actually the tough part
is like why do I think he's a dick why
do I think she's lazy because I want to
insult them but that's not so how do I
help her it's like okay why am I
describing her this way okay so when I
slack she she tends to be slow in her
response so sometimes it takes an hour
sometimes three hours I'm like okay so
I'm going to gather that data and be
like okay so when I talk to her I'm like
I'm going to have this this branch of
data the next thing is when I get stuff
uh you know projects from her they are
incomplete I feel like they're not all
the way fleshed out I'm like okay that's
a second second bucket um the next one
is that when she shows up on Zoom she
looks disheveled I'm like okay so now
when I talk to Sandy I'm not going to
say hey Sandy you look lazy need you to
level up a little bit here otherwise
we're going to have issues and have to
put you on a pip performance Improvement
plan right instead of saying that just
put her on the performance Improvement
plan without saying it's performance
Improvement plan and just
say when you show up on calls change
your background to like the the standard
company setting so we don't see your
bedroom right and and make sure that
from the waist up you look professional
and what do why I mean by look
professional have a collared shirt and
put your hair back okay now some people
like how does that work at in woke
politics no idea deal with it in your
country but like you should have a
culture where you can say stuff like
that the second thing is that right now
I need you to turn on slack
notifications and I need you to respond
within within 10 minutes okay during
work hours after work hours fine but you
know 9 to5 you have to respond within 10
minutes do you think you can do that yes
and so the end goal here is like I will
get everyone to stop calling you
lazy and this is how we do it it's
interesting because it goes back to
something you were saying earlier where
you were saying specifics versus vague
yeah prefrontal cortex versus amigdala
like insult is amigdala totally can't do
anything with that but if you make it
specific then action is more likely to
occur and useful action is more likely
to occur um on on this point of a person
who's listening now who's an
entrepreneur they've got a business yeah
and they're thinking about making those
first hires I want you to throw a
proposition at you to see what you
thought of this one of the things that I
think can help you not [__] up in the
hiring process especially early is if
you just live it with the permanent
assumption that you are bad at hiring so
I live with the permanent assumption
that I'm bad at hiring because I've got
biases there's things I don't know about
certain things Etc and when you start
with that assumption that you are really
really bad at hiring you try and
decentralize the decision- making so one
thing I say a lot to Startup Founders is
if you're hiring a salesperson create an
interview process where there's five
people and one of them might be you and
the other four are the best salesp
people you've ever encountered in your
life like who sold you your house yeah
and ask them ask them to be part of the
interview process how does that sit with
you I think it sits great and I think
that the amount of references that you
go for is proportional to the importance
of the role okay so say I'm the
co-founder of school um when he so he
was a non-technical Founder who school
what is school sorry oh so school's uh
school.com is uh a platform for building
communities right now it's online but we
have an inperson component so that
people can meet online then meet in
person it's awesome and so that's the
only investment that I've publicly uh
Associated myself with outside of
acquisition. comom so it's a very big
deal it's something I believe in a lot
because it's education it's where
education and media meet
um Sam is the is the is the founder of
school and he is not Technical and so he
knew that to build an exceptional
software product you need worldclass
talent and so he interviewed 600
developers to find Daniel who' become
the CTO of school and he asked everybody
to know who the best coders were and
then he talked to all those people and
then he asked them who the best coder
they knew was and he talked to those
people and then he asked them who they
thought the best coder they knew was and
eventually like Daniel's name came up as
like god tier he's like if you can ever
get this guy he'd be amazing and so he
ended up finding a way in to find Daniel
and then he ended up becoming a
co-founder of school as well and what's
interesting about that process is that
it actually Lads into uh rapid learning
and so when I was a consultant you I was
22 years old
and I would go and have to give
presentations to fourstar generals right
about about weapon systems that I knew
nothing about cuz I was you know
chugging beers like 12 months earlier
right um and so how do you sound
intelligent in front of somebody who has
30 years more experience than you do and
so this is the Consulting process for
Rapid
learning first is you find five experts
so you ask the one person you're like
hey tell me the five people you know who
are the best at this thing and then you
ask them who are the five people you
know who are who are who also know a ton
about this thing and for each of the
interviews you take all of their their
information down of like what do you
think about this what do you think about
this what do you think this and what
happens you start mapping kind of like
the E the information ecosystem and the
reason you talk to experts first is that
there's no lack of information like you
can Google whatever you want the problem
is there's too much and so the filter
becomes where the highest point of
Leverage is and so experts have spent
years filtering out for what's important
and so then you basically rapidly
consume the most filtered information
and then you reor organize the
information and so this is what a
typical analyst will do as a consultant
is like I would so for the space and
cyber project that I did I we had 600
pages of notes from all the interviews
that we did first step is you
recategorize all all the newes by
category so it goes from raw notes to
categorized notes then from there you
distill and consolidate notes into what
are the what are the TR truths or the
the most distilled beliefs that we have
about these particular in this case
weapon systems but it could be whatever
and then from there you're able to
generate your inferences for what the
what it looks like when it's right what
the problems are what potential
Solutions might be and then that's
fundamentally how you say this is what
we need to do next that's if you're
trying to learn something but in talking
to all those people it actually works
the same way because the interview
process the higher up the talent is the
more I would encourage entrepreneurs to
use it as a learning process as a
consultant and so I present somebody who
wants to come in for this role the
actual problems of the business for
which they would have control over and
say how would you solve these and so
then they tell me all the things that
they would be considering and what
they're thinking about and then I'll ask
the next guy what he thinks and what he
thinks and what he thinks or she thinks
and then all of a sudden one I get free
consulting which is amazing but secondly
you can tell by how the quality and
quantity of metrics that someone tracks
how good they are at a particular scale
and so this is fundamentally what
separates beginners from experts and so
beginners typically have binary thinking
in terms of outcomes either it worked or
it didn't work an expert for example for
a marketing campaign
isn't going to say oh marketing doesn't
work or ads don't work they're going to
say this particular campaign didn't work
because our click-through rate was too
low or because it was sending traffic
that wasn't qualified and we weren't
converting enough on the page or we
didn't have enough people who were
taking the second step in our four steps
and like they can break down any part of
those any part of that Continuum if I'm
interviewing a salesperson and the
person says and I say okay how are you
going to affect these metrics what
behaviors are are you going to do so to
the same degree about vague versus
spefic specific if they give me vague
things back I'm going to dial in and say
no what are you going to do that's going
to change that and by the way this is a
wonderful way to teach in the
organization how what they do makes a
business money and so if you have like a
customer support rep for example and you
say Hey how do you make our company
money if they can't explain it to you
they probably aren't doing it and it
sounds as simple as it is but if someone
says well you know I answer customers
questions and it's like how does that
make us money now if they're able to say
when I answer customers questions I
increase the likely that they refer
other customers and I increase the
likelihood that they stay and continue
to pay for us so I help us get new
customers by delivering an amazing
experience and I get the customers that
we have to continue to pay us and if it
makes sense I recommend other products
and services that we have that I can
introduce them to sales guys who can
explain that so we generate even more
revenue from them I'd be like one if you
can articulate that you're probably not
just a front like us you're probably a
director right and so that level of
nuance the specificity is what shows
expertise and so when I look for and I'm
interviewing uh for candidates I first I
I want to gather this once information
as I can I want to drain as much
knowledge as possible but I'm also
really looking for the quality and
quantity of metrics they track and
behaviors that they do to influence
those metrics so in the hypothetical
problem that let's say we're trying to
solve uh we have low clickthrough rates
I'd be like okay this is the problem we
have how would you approach changing it
right and then that actually gets me to
understand what they would do in the
organization because it's very easy to
say uh you know I'm going to come in and
let's say a sales director I'm going to
come in and I'm going to I'm going to
improve the the sales team I'm like okay
cool what are you going to do you know
I'm going to coach the guys up I'm like
okay what does that mean and so just
continuing to ask what does that mean
how do you do that until they're like
okay well I'm going to meet with the
guys every single morning and we're
going to do role play all right how do
you role playay well we're going to
start with the script and we're like the
more detailed they get the more I
believe they can do it because they've
actually explained what actions they
will take if someone can't dial into
actions then it's very unlikely that
they're going to take them and so what I
just outlined is basically Three core
things so one is the quality and
quantity of metrics that they track the
second is the behaviors that they're
going to do to influence those metrics
and then lading up to Third how do those
metrics and these behaviors influence
the revenue in the business if they can
explain that clearly you have a
winner all of that
is requires them to know if the person's
not
bullshitting and also to know like what
metrics matter right cuz someone could
sit in an interview if for my firsttime
founder say a bunch of big complicated
words it sounds good I hire them and
that's really what I'm trying to
mitigate here is how do I not let a
[__] a pass me so assume I know
nothing let's start there what do you
think customer service
means and
so if someone really has expertise so
Richard fan was famous this the
physicist which is if you can't explain
it to a child then you don't understand
it well enough and so if they do confuse
you it means that they don't understand
it or they're doing it purposefully
neither of which are good scenarios you
said something during during that
explanation you said you were talking
about your like your founding partner at
school and you said that he was pursuing
a CTO and he said if we can get this guy
he'd be amazing yeah so many
entrepreneurs that are starting in
business have that thought sometimes
they think if I could just get that guy
from that amazing company to come join
our garage where we're building this new
startup it would change our
fortunes but how how do I get a truly
exceptional person who is being paid
[__] tons of money who has a comfortable
job who has security to come join me in
my
bedroom well I think there's there's the
soft and the hard side right so the hard
side is the is compensation maybe you
don't have as much cash so it's like
you're going to have you know a few
levers at your disposal so you have what
do you pay them in cash what's their
upside if there's Equity or shares that
you're going to give them this is
obviously if it's soft software business
you can and I'm you know it's probably
worth segmenting this so if you're not
in a software company which is probably
the vast majority of people listening to
this there are four elements within
Equity that that that exist you have
control so who gets to call the shots
you have risk what happens if everything
goes wrong who's liable you have profits
which is the cash flow of the business
who gets distributions and then
basically sale or Enterprise Value when
we sell or if we sell who gets to
participate in that upside those are
kind of the four elements of equity now
the thing is is that you can obviously
Grant shares or you can give stock in a
company that's one way of doing it but
you can also basically contract around
any of these things now most of the
times they don't want the risk and they
probably won't get the control uh if
it's your company so you really just
have profit and you have uh and you have
upside in terms of uh a sale and so you
can contract these things and there's
lots of structur so I'm not going to get
into legal around this um but asking
somebody what do want sometimes it's
just a very powerful way of beginning
this and my favorite question for these
types of scenarios is asking what would
it
take so when you have this guy it's like
man it would be amazing like how do I
sell this guy I just ask him what would
sell you so I say what would it take
because I don't know he'll tell me and I
love that frame because it assumes
yes it assumes you're going to come so
what would it take how so many of the
books that you you write and so much of
the content you make centers on this
idea of sales yeah and it is a sale
isn't it totally and I I always think
about the Steve Jobs quote where he met
with was it John Scully who was working
at like Pepsi and he said do you want to
consider continue selling sugar water
for the rest of your life who you want
to come change the world yeah um how
does that sort of emotional
psychological element of this self
factor into it persuading someone
exceptional to come and join your
mission I think it's the amigdala story
that we started with the nasal strip
thing which now has actually reared its
nose multiple times poked its nose in a
few times here but I think that pitch
that you're giving to a potential
co-founder or potential early hire who's
going to be a leader is the same more or
less that you'd give to an investor it's
almost the same pitch except instead of
investing Capital they're investing time
they're investing their life they're
investing their expertise but
fundamentally you're asking for
investment I'm just asking
you there's also this weird question
which I've I've actually never asked
anybody but Founders often struggle with
do I hire naivity because that's going
to probably create new solutions to Old
problems like the young Scrappy kid that
gets Tik Tok or do I hire experience
which is going to be more expensive more
conventional and safe and I see some
companies lean too far either way
yeah I have actually fairly strong
opinions on this oh great so I actually
think it's um and I was talking to the
CEO of butcher boox about this
particular thing um last
week I think it's a barbell strategy
where you have people on either ends and
very little in the middle interesting so
I love lots of young hungry people who
are here for growth and want to learn
and are ready to work long hours and
just go all
in and the people at the call it the L
the back half of their career that are
here that they they've made enough money
they know they can get a job wherever
they feel like it you're not doing them
a favor by giving them a job and they're
not what I a term I hate which is
careerists they're not obsessed with
their title they're not obsessed
obsessed with their career path what
their promotion plan is going to be they
basically have a litmus test which is
like I have to have make about this to
get to come in and do this with you but
they actually just really love the work
and so these people are learning so the
young people are learning and and
overcompensating with tons of hours and
Reps and these people are bringing their
experience to the game and creating
significantly more leverage with
strategy the people in the middle are
the ones that tend to be the pain in the
ass for everybody and I don't think and
be clear here I don't think this is
actually an age thing I think it's a
perspective thing so it's just are you
here for growth or are you here to share
what you know and I think that it's the
people in the middle that are like well
I'm bringing something but I need some
it's like this kind of tit fortat
relationship that um I would say the
vast majority of people that don't work
out are in that bucket and what role
does naivity play in Innovation here
because the kids that don't know the
rules yeah are more likely to stumble
across nuances right I think yes
uh you can fundamentally you can disrupt
any industry if you don't know how it's
supposed to go and so but that's I think
that really teases out something we said
at the very beginning which is um
starting from first principles which is
what are the few things I know to be
true and then basically forgetting
everything else and when you build from
those assumptions up you end up building
a lots of different paths up the
mountain that may or may not have been
Trot in before I think one of the one of
the one of the most um ating things that
can happen sometimes is that like you
rederive a solution that already works
and you're like okay well now I know why
this works right and I think but I think
that's actually then you have more
confidence in the path and you're like
okay that's fine but now I know why
we're doing this not just because other
people did it but because I understand
why it works and so I think it just
comes down to what are the few truths
that I know to be true and going all in
on those things like I know that if
customers love my product they are more
likely to tell other people about it
than if they hate it that I feel very
confident so then we say okay what are
the things that must occur in order to
get someone to quote love my product AKA
increase the likelihood that they tell
their friends about it or post about us
and so now there's and you can break
this and again this is where quality and
quantity of metrics matter so it's like
how how much more Nuance can I break and
break this up into small pieces so it's
like okay at what time do we deliver
these messages or around what
experiences that have high likelihood of
them posting can we decrease the
friction around uh them sending friends
how can we make it both easy and how can
we incentivize it and so all of these
components whether it's a service
business a physical products business a
software business it still works the
same way is you know and for each each
customer for example as we're taking
someone through this I have four
Milestones that I look for which are the
four RS so how do I get them to review
my product how do I how do I well in
order it be how do I retain them
immediately how do I get them to review
my product how do I get them to refer
somebody and then how do I resell them
and so they're basically those for RS is
what I try and take every customer
through it's a very simple framework
right when you think I was like oh man
customer success what does it mean it's
just like well these are the four things
that I want to occur and so all I'm
trying to do is reverse engineer what
activities increase the likely that each
of these four hours
happen this year 55% of businesses
globally are utilizing AI in some form
it's become so integrated across every
point of my businesses that it's hard to
remember a time when my team and I
weren't using it Adobe Express who
sponsored this podcast is a prime
example of a tool our team uses day in
and day out it's generate image tool
only needs a few words describing what
you want and using AI it returns many
images for you to choose from if you're
watching see how quick and easy it is
and you can try it yourself for free the
customizable templates mean you or
anyone in your team can create something
that stands out without starting
entirely from scratch or being a design
expert it's the type of technology that
differentiates Adobe Express from being
just another design tool and makes it
the quick and easy create anything app
search Adobe Express will download it
for free in the the app store right now
well I want to go through the the four
RS but I also I think that what comes
before the 4 RS is knowing how to get
customers in the first place which is a
was a tricky one and actually maybe even
the thing that comes before that is
being psychologically prepared for
the the toll and the roller coaster that
business is I found this um found this
graph of yours oh God yeah and I think
for any founder starting a business it's
important to for them to understand this
cycle um I think you call it like the
crash burn cycle or something because if
you're not aware of the cycle when you
hit certain parts of it you're probably
going to think that there's something
wrong with you yeah and but there's a
certain inevitability to this crash
cycle I'll put it on the screen for
anyone to see yeah this is this is the
entrepreneur life cycle until you learn
how to break free from it and so there
are six
stages you have stage one which is
uninformed optimism this is where you
see your friend or you see something
online and it looks like they're making
money or it looks like there's some
opportunity and you think oh my God that
sounds amazing and you have optimism
because it looks great but it's
uninformed because you have no idea what
it
entails so then you dive in and you say
okay I'm going to pursue this this thing
whatever is it baking cupcakes or I'm
going to I'm going to do lawn mowing or
I'm going to do crypto trading whatever
second step is you get into it and
you're like oh my God I don't know
there's so many things involved in this
and this is significantly more
complicated than I I expected so then
you become an informed pessimist
you now know uh that it's hard or
significantly harder than you expected
the third stage is you have your crisis
of meaning or the value of Despair so
you're continuing to do this stuff it's
continuing to not work and you keep
working and it keeps not working and so
this is the step and this is the this is
the point of Truth and this is the cycle
where the the paths of the entrepreneurs
split and the vast majority of people
take this next step which is they then
say you know what
there's that thing over there that my
other friend's doing maybe I should do
that instead and so then they hop back
to uninformed optimism and then they go
boom to inform pessimism and they just
go around and around and around and they
live the same six months uh for 20
straight
years now the other path of from the
valley of Despair is sticking with it
and so then you become an informed
Optimist because now you understand you
still understood all the bad stuff but
you also understand the good stuff and
how to avoid the bad and maximize the
good and then once you're there you do
you stick on that path long enough and
you end up achieving what you originally
thought was really easy and fast and so
that cycle this is more or less the um
the Alex rosi life story which is why I
can so intimately describe you to the
steps is that I call that Loop and that
uh the person on the other side the
woman in the red dress which is probably
my favorite part of the Matrix movie
which is Neo who's the the main
character uh is in a program to teach
him one thing and so he's walking uh
through the crowded streets of what
looks like a New York City with Morpheus
leading him and uh he's drawing on about
something that he's supposed to learn
and he says Neo were you listening to me
or were you looking to the woman looking
at the woman in the red dress and and
Neo was looking at the woman in the red
dress as Morpheus is talking and then he
says look again and he looks back at the
one the dress and it's agent Smith with
a gun point at his head and in that
moment he's like freeze
and he explains that you're either one
of us or one of them and they are the
people who are Sentinels sent to destroy
us and so what appears to be the woman
in the red dress is actually a a an
agent from the system meant to destroy
the opportunity that you're in right now
and so I love the woman that red dress
so much because it's so real because
you're in this thing you're in this
relationship with your business and
you're like you know this girl seems
great and then you you get to know her
and you find out she snores when she
sleeps and all of a sudden it's like you
know uh you know you see you see the
sweatpants and no makeup in the morning
and you realize that sometimes she's
Moody whatever but you get to you start
to get to know you're like I don't know
if we're going to get married like you
know this is kind of where we're at and
then you see a woman in the red dress
and you're like you know what I think
that's the girl and so you quit this
relationship with your business and you
get into that relationship but then you
realize that that girl has crab she has
a crazy ex-boyfriend and you're like oh
my God I didn't want to deal with any of
this stuff right and so my CF so was one
of the first people that were like oh my
God I hired that person it changed
everything so my CFO in gym launch um
had taken four companies from 0 to 100
million um she had done over 40 m&a
transactions her largest one was 5
billion super experience um she was the
very end of her career and she was like
I'll take you guys I'll I'll take this
one last ride with you guys and so you
know mind you Leila and I I'm 26 or 27
at the time Leela's 23 24 and we're
sitting across the table from a very
experienced business person being like
please help us and so one of the things
that she taught me that I I'll never
forget is she
said the grass is always greener on the
other side you just don't know that it's
fertilized with
[__] and she and she she's Southern so
she have this deep southern act she's
like there's always [__] yeah [__]
everywhere and so she's like I've been
in enough businesses to know that all
businesses have [__] and so you just
have the [__] you don't know about and
the [__] you do know about and you're in
this business and so this is the [__]
you know and that has been so profoundly
impactful in my life because it was so
hard for me to break the cycle really
hard for me um I mean I gave you my my
life story of the many businesses that
I've been involved in and so like the
entrepreneurial add has been so real for
me and I've made some of the biggest
career Mistakes by just pursuing and
splitting my attention between multiple
Endeavors and I can say truthfully that
this 2024 was the first year and this is
now 2025 the first time in my life where
I haven't experienced fomo so fear of
missing out and it was one of those
things things that I just always had I
would see somebody doing really well
like oh man I mean I should be getting
into that like that I shouldn't be doing
this I should doing that um and it was
it was one of those things it's kind of
like being happy where like you don't
realize you're happy you just look back
and you're like you know what that was a
really good year you know like you kind
of like you kind of see it in retrospect
what I realized was that now when I hear
someone say like oh my God I crushed it
with this thing I think that's amazing
for them I'm sure there's tons of
problems that I don't know about and
that's amazing but I'm going to keep
doing this thing because this is the
only thing I know how to do pretty well
and I'm just going to keep compounding
my information advantage against
everybody else who thinks this is easy
and wants to get into it and so um I
think that
that every any any massive company that
you know of has existed for multiple
decades and in order for something to
exist for multiple decades the founder
has to stay focused on that thing for
the whole time and I measure focus by
the quantity and quality of things that
you say no to and I measure
commitment or I Define commitment as the
elimination of Alternatives and so if
you think of marriage as the commitment
then it is the ultimate commitment
because you've limited literally every
alternative besides this person and so I
think that many business problems and
many entrepreneurs would 5x 10x their
business if they simply gave themselves
no way
out this is what I'm doing and I'm I
mean the term you know burning the boats
but I'm eliminating all Alternatives and
structuring my life such that I I make
it very difficult to pursue the
Alternatives and I think by doing that
you can actually conquer this this cycle
and make it past the split where you go
uh Crash and Burn and then restart the
Doom Loop or make it to informed
optimism and then eventually to the
achievement that you
want there's so much there there's so
much there but it's such an important
Point
um so where should I start so at that
moment here this crisis of meaning
moment yeah what I see so much of is
entrepreneurs not necessarily quitting
the old thing but just taking on
something else and get entrepreneurs
will come up to me in the gym and
they'll say hey Steve um just want to
let you know what I do and see if you
can offer me any advice and then they'll
list three things they'll say I'm
starting this crypto thing with my
friend Dave I've got this hair business
where we're selling on Ecom and I've got
this other thing and they almost assume
that the more things they're doing the
higher the probability that they'll be
successful in
something my mom was that my my mom has
started 30 businesses and I watched for
my whole childhood how she was start a
hairdressing salon and then the person
down the street running an estate agents
would come in and say we're making loads
of money as an estate agents she'd start
that that business would suck she'd hit
this moment of crisis of meaning she'
then start a Furniture business and a
and then she she so she jumped between
20 to 30 businesses and it's kind of
still happening now where they last six
months they eventually go bust she sort
of like you know like the monkeys that
swing to the next brch swings to the
next thing and there's never been the
escape Velocity that comes from this
formed optimism
part so yeah this it really rang true
for me in every sense of the word this
idea of like a focus going against all
of your instincts and your emotions but
being pivotal to achievement I think
entrepreneurship is far more a war of
the heart than it is a war of the mind
like we can understand what we should do
we just don't do it and I think that's
why um we are so much better at giving
advice than we are at following it so
most people if they just followed their
own advice they'd be
successful right and so um with this
kind of valley of Despair I call it um
Niche slapping it's like don't make me
nit slap
you which is like when you have three
things going on it's like let me like
slap you into just picking one because
the thing is is that any of them can
work but none of them will work unless
you pick only one because it's actually
in my
opinion an exercise and arrogance to
assume that you doing three things is
somehow going to beat somebody who's
doing one and I can promise you the
competitor who is going to beat you is
only doing that one thing and you think
a third of your time is going to be
there no it's not going to I think it's
arrogant and so there's actually like an
under there's like an underpinning of
egoo underneath of this and I say this
to somebody who did this so like when I
had the launch business I also had my
six gyms I also had a chiropractor
agency and I also had a dental agency
and so I would introduce myself I'm like
oh I own lots of companies but I think
one of the biggest Mis conceptions when
you're an entrepreneur is not
understanding the difference between
being an owner and being the CEO and so
they might hear that you have a
portfolio they might hear that I have a
portfolio and be like okay well they
have a portfolio so I must model that
that guy's tall I should play basketball
doesn't work that way right I should be
so if I want to be rich I should fly
private doesn't work that way right um
it's conflating order and
so we must do these things in order uh
to get the outcome we have to
concentrate on only one thing in order
to get the outsized return
and that spreading of attention
especially when you're newer in the
entrepreneurial career it's like you
already don't know so many things how do
you now want to have three sets of
unknowns that you want to try and
Conquer at the same time and the the
fallacy of thinking is that I'm going to
try all of them and see which one
works but none of them will work because
you're waiting to see which one will
work because you can force in my opinion
you can force one thing to work provided
like I'm I'm going to just assume BAS
like you're selling you're not selling
$5 bills for $4 like like you know the
normal economics of a business like if
if if if a real estate business exists
there are other people are making money
there are hairon businesses where people
are making money there are lawnmowing
business where people are making money
you can make money in all of them you
just can't make money in all of
them at the same and it it's when you
walked in today and you sat down on the
chair I said like what's going on with
you professionally I remember what you
said you said more of the same and
better which clearly comes from your
wisdom my my infinite wisdom right well
it's just from from from from from
suffering um the the the wo of this
like the biggest entrepreneurial
mistakes I've made in my career have all
come from splitting my attention every
one of them like every single one of
them like I talked about how I had the
e-commerce business that I bolted on to
my to my licensing company I should not
have done that as soon as I did that my
my Revenue started slowing down and it's
growth why did you because I was
add like I just I was like oh my I don't
want to leave money on the table and I
want to I want to be so violent about
this you are always going to leave money
on the table that is the result of focus
but you're you're leaving a small amount
of money on the table to pursue the much
larger money that's on another table of
just sticking with the thing that you're
on right now because compounding if I
were to show a chart here it's like if
you're at year three of your thing and
you want to think about moving to year
zero of a new thing you have to compare
maybe year zero of a new thing grows
faster but it has to grow faster than
year three to four of the thing that
you're on right now and I think that's
that people will compare year zero to
year zero but not year four to year zero
and the thing is is you actually we have
a linear life and so we that is it's an
unfair but true comparison of the
opportunity cost and every exceptionally
um successful entrepreneur that I know
has just stuck with one thing for such
an inordinate amount of time and I think
there's a quote by um I want to say
Shane per is but he said um success is
doing the obvious thing for an
extraordinary period of time without
believing that you're smarter than you
are and it's just like you we we know
what we need to do
and comp so we don't need to make our
lives more complex complexity will come
with scale I promise and so just simply
trying to do more of what you're already
doing well is already hard enough don't
add anything else and so like if you
need to write some sort of commitment of
like I'm just going to stick with this
then do that but
the what happens is we were talking
about the levels earlier about like
beating the bosses so what happens is
you know how to beat boss one through
three of of the game and so then you
just say okay well I'm just going to
start the game over and beat boss I mean
this is this time it's going to be
different but then you just get to level
three again and then you're stuck again
and so people just keep getting up to
level three and new and and and new
Endeavors over and over again because
they never learned how to get past that
boss and so you just have to confront
the uncertainty of knowing that you
don't know how to do it but that you
will figure it out if you keep doing
enough repetitions and that's where you
talk to as many people as you can you
see what they said you consolidate it
all you say I think this is the highest
likely path it might not work but I do
believe fundamentally that if we cut
people's hair well and we do it for a
long period of time we will have a
thriving business and if we have a
really good model from that thing we
might be able to open up another
location and if we keep our costs down
we might be able to have an actual model
that we could either invest our own
capital or bring somebody else and take
it national like all of these like I
have yet to find a business that can't
get to $100 million a year that has a
permutation of it that exists you're a
dry cleaner fine well cool we'll build
the model and either we're going to
license the model we can franchise the
model out we can get outside investors
we can scale it nationally we can do it
but the crazy goals are only crazy
because people crazy timelines they're
actually very seane goals if you extend
the timeline out if you have a a true 10
year goal or true 20- year goal almost
anything's accomplishable I mean almost
every multi-billion dollar company is
about you know they get it's usually
between like years six and 10 when
companies get to kind of like those big
numbers and most people who are
listening to this are five years into
entrepreneurship but you're six months
into the thing that you've been working
on right now and you keep restarting the
clock for getting to year 10 every time
you start over and I think that's the
part that it took me a very long time to
figure out and I think it takes a lot of
entrepreneurs like everyone messes
around with a lot of stuff in the
beginning because you just don't know
what you're doing and so in my
experience it takes about five years for
most entrepreneurs that I know to just
like find something that works like like
takes about five years to figure out
which way is North yeah right and then
it takes like another five years and a
lot of people that's it like they they
restart they they they go off Crash and
Burn um and it takes another 5 years to
build something that can can create
generational wealth so it's about a
10year slug and here's the really hard
truth about it if you have a job right
now for almost all of that five years
you quit your job because you don't want
to work as hard as you are and you want
to make more money and as soon as you
quit you will realize that you are now
going to work way harder than you were
and you're going to make less money for
an extended period of time the one
benefit is that you get to claim all
responsibility for how little you make
and how much you work
because you're like my boss is an idiot
and it's me but it's the truth and I
think that in some ways having that um
optimistic ignorance is actually one of
the really redeeming traits of
entrepreneurs and one of the really hard
Parts is that the biggest jump you have
to make gets so immediately reinforced
from the freedom you have from being
able to you know chart your own
path but
that big success of quitting one thing
and starting another you need to
immediately forget and I think that
fundamentally that is why so many
entrepreneurs keep doing it is because
the first time you do it it's the
biggest rush ever you quit your job you
do the business and and you get some
some first traction and that that first
dollar that you make when the new
business is like the best dollar ever
right but it such a strong reinforcer
that what does it reinforce it
reinforces stopping what you're doing
and St starting something else and so I
think one of the fundamental errors of
Entrepreneurship is that sometimes the
jumping ship to start this thing is the
lesson that you need to immediately
unlearn because after that you have to
just stick with it for a very long
period of
time there's also something in that
entrepreneurs don't go into starting a
company with the belief that their
hypothesis is wrong so in year one or
seven months in when they realized that
their initial hypothesis was wrong they
think that means abandoned [__] because
my hypothesis was wrong whereas
successful entrepreneurs that I've met
especially second time Founders realize
that their hypothesis is almost
certainly wrong from the jump and that
the process of starting is to correct
and to find a new hypothesis I think
about like Mark Zuckerberg in his room
with like face swap or whatever it was
rating people's attractiveness and now
meta is this like virtual reality AI
company yeah but understanding that your
hypothesis is wrong from the jump and
that you know this is a process of
finding a new hypothesis I think would
give you a little bit more p patience as
well through these cycles of the crisis
of meaning and so on so two things so
one is I had this tweet that went like
super viral but it was like uh
first-time founder hey I need you to
sign an NDA before I tell you my
business idea I know you've gotten I
know I know you
have third time
founder uh here's everything I have
here's all the documents here's all the
projections it's probably all wrong and
this probably won't work um but I have a
couple smart people and I think we'll be
able to f figure it out it'll probably
cost longer and take longer cost more
and take longer than we think but we
think it's worth a
shot and that things because everyone
who who who's been on both sides of that
understand like the entrepreneurs got it
because they're like oh my God I was
that guy um and all the investors get it
because they're like oh my God I deal
with this guy all the time but actually
what you just said with the many many
iterations that from your original idea
until what actually happens is yet again
one of those um demonstrations of the
difference between a beginner an expert
a beginner has binary thinking so they
think this worked or it didn't work and
if it didn't work then I need a new idea
rather than having the Nuance thinking
of a master or an expert or Advanced
person who says what about this if I
click into it I break it into its
component parts what about this didn't
work okay it's not that meta ads don't
work or advertising doesn't work it's
that we didn't nail the hook in our ad
or that we didn't make our our offer
clear enough on the landing page or it
was not congruent with the advertisement
or um you know it was the offer itself
wasn't very compelling or it didn't have
it didn't like it was just this we
everyone's coming in and saying yeah
yeah I kind of want that but this is
actually my issue we're not solving the
core problem so it's it's always in the
in the details it's always in the
sifting through the many small things
that you find the kernel that ends up
fixing uh the business I mean I know
that uh Facebook was trying to fix their
virality issue and they were locked in a
room for days trying to figure out how
they could get more users to retain on
the platform right people would sign up
but then they wouldn't do anything and
then they they drop out and so finally
um Zuck just said okay we have some
belief that if people have more friends
that they will engage and so they didn't
and here's the thing like with the
uncertainty they couldn't prove it he
just was like I feel like that's better
than them not having friends and so he
said all right the new goal is 10
friends in 14 days that's the goal so we
have to create the experience so that we
can get it to introduce them to 10
people or connect them with 10 people
they already know on the platform within
14 days and as soon as that happened
then obviously Facebook took off or
continued to grow and so he wasn't like
oh Facebook doesn't work anymore or
social networks aren't going to be a
thing it's it's usually way smaller and
way the adjustment you need to make is
much more nuanced than what you
originally expect if the foundational
principle of like cutting hair mowing
lawns whatever it's like this problem
exists and I can charge a certain amount
and make a profit on it then there's
nothing wrong with the business it's
just what is the constraint that's
holding us back and then usually zooming
into the constraint and realizing
there's 20 things that are contributing
to the outcome not one and that's where
expertise and that and you develop that
expertise by trying and failing yeah and
that's and that's just the name of the
game and so I think you have to have an
incredibly high tolerance for failure
without internalizing it and feeling
like you yourself are a failure as a
result of failure
well this is it when I started my first
business at 18 years old called wallpark
social network whatever um I thought the
game was to be right yeah I came to
learn from businesses that came after
that actually the game of
Entrepreneurship is to be successful and
they're two very different things to win
because when you want to be right you
not only want to be CEO and you want
your hypothesis that you put in that
first um Pitch deck to come true and
even when customers are telling you that
you were wrong you try and force the
[__]
hyp yeah but when when your game is to
be successful there's a couple of really
interesting things that I observe happen
one of them is you I watch Founders say
actually maybe I'm not the best person
to be CEO yeah even though I founded
this thing maybe I should be Chief brand
officer when I think about some of the
top companies in the UK represent just
valued at 100 million Jim shark Ben's
business valued at 1.5 billion Julian's
business probably valued at a billion
I'm involved in some of these businesses
in different ways but um the thing they
all have in common is at some early
point the founder their ego secondary to
the success of the business they said
actually I'm not the best CEO I should
be head of brand or marketing product or
product or whatever it is and that's
that mindset shift from being I need to
be right and I need to be at the helm of
being right versus this thing needs to
be
successful and this goes back to the
who which is if you if you at some point
if you want to have a really
ridiculously successful company it will
require more lifetimes of expertise than
you can live and so then it's it becomes
a recruiting game like very quickly
almost all business becomes
recruiting which is how do I I mean if
you if you listen to Zuck talk about it
you look you listen to Elon talk about
it you listen to to Steve Jobs talk
about it Steve would talk about how the
best players that he had in the company
he would set aside like a year to 18
months to bring them in amen and he said
every time I you know I I I knew who I
wanted and then I would he's like you
know I would take some calls with other
people and I would just be like but
they're not
John they're not John and so he would
just keep working on them and working on
them and working them and eventually
they're like you know what fine they
like give up they're like if this guy's
this persistent like he probably will be
successful on but he will take us there
and I think that like people are the
highest leverage thing that you that you
can bring into the company outside of
you know crazy
technology I am one of my favorite
videos of all time is where Steve Jobs
who you just mentioned talks about
hiring tril exceptional people and he
says words to the effect I'll play it on
screen he says um people think the
success of Apple is a consequence of me
and my talent and my skills but what
I've actually done is I've built my
career quote on hiring truly exceptional
people doing the extremely hard work of
finding them and hiring them and this
crazy thing happens when you do that is
it propagates I a players then want to
work with a players they also hire a
players and it spreads I think it was
this
video I've
built a lot of my success off finding
these truly gifted people and not
settling for B andc players but really
going for the a players and I found
something I found that when you get
enough a players together when you go to
through the incredible work to find you
know five of these eight players they
really like working with each other
because they they've never had a chance
to do that before and they don't want to
work with BNC players and so it becomes
self-policing and they only one hire
more a players and so you build up these
pockets of a players and it
propagates the thing is is that it's
just like money won't make you
happy it's one of those things that like
every founder like has to figure out for
themselves but the thing is is and I and
I've had obviously a bunch of
conversations around this but
like what you think is an a player today
is not what you will think an a player
is in five years and so I think one of
the the hardest mental hacks around this
is trying to project yourself into the
future into the size business that you
want to have and say who would be an a
player at that size and scale and then
coming back to the present and saying
how do I get them to work for me today
amen and it's it's really and so as a
mental process for anybody who does have
a business right now and has some
employees if you like everybody right
now you probably have some version of
your a player because every business has
at least one hopefully right besides you
um imagine your business had five of
those people like you picture in your
head you've got that one person now you
have five of them how much more would
you make would you would you double
would you would you five would you 10x
would you 50x and sometimes you realize
you're like no I think I would actually
10x and so if that were the case one Not
only would you 10x the company number
two the value of the company would more
than 10x because it would no longer be
it would be significantly less relied on
you and it'd be more reliant on the team
that you've
built number three if would happen
faster because you would have more
barrels that were firing concurrently
moving things forward and those those
pieces when put together you have to
then ask yourself from an opportunity
cost perspective what other activity
could I be doing that would have the
possibility of texing my company doing
it faster and increasing the Enterprise
Value
multiple that's not that and if you
can't find one then it means you're
working on the wrong stuff and I think
that is one of those um great litmus
tests of like if I can find something
and I'll give you a really simple one
that's not not human B the talent based
here something as simple as calling your
leads so there's tons of research that
suggest that you can four 5x your
conversion of leads by calling them
within 60 seconds of them opting it for
any product you
have if you have all of these priorities
they have across the
company does any of them have the high
likelihood of four or 5x in your
business
immediately with very low cost of doing
so less so than just calling the leads
within 60 seconds if the answer is no
Then by God why are you not calling all
your leads within 60 seconds the fob
question would would be like well I
don't have enough people to call our
leads within 60 seconds so then we'd say
okay what is 4X the revenue of your
company worth okay what does it cost to
hire one person who whose only job is to
just call the leads now I recently
talked to a Restoration company so they
did water damage for homes when they got
hit by storms and he told me he said he
was converting 55% of his leads not
calls leads and I was like how on Earth
are you doing this and I was like well
how many leads a day do you get he said
two or three I was like okay so what's
the process he's like oh it's really
simple uh my aunt I pay her $60,000 a
year and she has only one job she has no
responsibility in the company besides
the moment a lead comes in you stop
having sex with your husband you stop
you stop you stop cooking you stop
loving your child and you immediately
call the lead that's the only
responsibility she just has to make
three calls a day at the moment the
leads come in and he pays her
$60,000 and that brings in millions of
dollars of Revenue and So you you're not
going to pay for it out of the dollars
you have now you're going to pay for it
out of the dollars that you're going to
make that you're not making yet because
you haven't done it yet and
so pin in that
back to the
people I think the hardest time I we
call this the swamp at acquisition.
comom but it's usually between like 1
and 3 million is the swamp and I think
there's a numberous reason for why it's
such a painful period for
entrepreneurs let's say 1 million for
simple math if you have a million-dollar
business let's say that you have 20%
margins so that means you're making
$200,000 a year in profit for you to get
an a player it's probably going to cost
you 100% of your profit to get that a
player and so you'll have what appears
to be an impossible Choice you'll have
do I sacrifice basically 100% of my
profit to bring this person in or do I
work another six hours a day to to do
the job that this person is doing both
paths work both are painful and risky
because the overworking yourself thing
you can get yourself through that hump
and then now you're at maybe 3 or 4
million and that 20% is 800 you can you
can spend 200 you still have cash flow
you can still live the downside for the
picking the person path is that what if
you pick
wrong and this by the way ladies and
gentlemen is why entrepreneurs get
outside returns is because we take on
outside risk and so this is the this is
the job is that we have to be willing to
make impossible choices and the vast
majority of choices for entrepreneurs in
the business are impossible choices
between two relatively bad scenarios
because the rest of the choices aren't
don't even feel like choices because
they're obvious of course we should car
leads faster of course we should follow
up more of course we should try and
onboard faster okay all these things are
the obvious ones but when you
have man I'm trying to think of the ones
I I'm not I'm
not almost all the decisions that you
get stuck with and Elon says this really
beautifully he says
um running a business is like staring
out to the abyss and chewing glass so
because uh the staring out to the abyss
component of it is just the fact that
this may never work and you're almost
facing existential risk at all times to
the business and the eating glass
component is that you will by nature of
your role get funneled the worst
problems in the business and the
problems that no one else can solve so
it's one problems that people can't
solve two the worst ones or that they
they don't want to solve and they suck
and so you basically become a filter for
the worst things and that's why it feels
like a fire every single day in the
business because you're the only one who
can make the tough call because no one
else wants to choose between these two
impossible choices and you're like why
is it so hard and the thing is is that
it literally never stops being hard it's
that the currency that you pay for in
the hardness changes and so you know a
lot of people have this envisionment of
like the rocky cut scene of like it must
be hard for business but I don't I don't
think that's where the hardship comes I
think the hardship is that at every
level of business there's new sacrifices
that you didn't know you were going to
have to make because if it was just oh I
have to work long hours there's tons of
people work long hours in their business
and don't don't grow and it's usually
because they're unwilling to have a hard
conversation it's a different currency
right they have to take on risk it's a
different currency they have to um they
have to they have to make some sort of
BET right that they otherwise wouldn't
have had to make they have some sort of
legal issue that they encounter they
have an employee who tries to sue them
for some sort of Mal whatever right all
of a sudden you're like wait all of
these things are happening and they
happen on a regular basis and at each
level you unlock new levels of glass
that you get to True through and so this
is why like most entrepreneurs in my
opinion don't actually quit they fizzle
so it's not a big bang usually it's they
just they stop seeking so either they
get content at the level that they're at
and they just don't strive for more um
and sometimes they say it just wasn't
worth the trade and I respect that if
you're like you know what I'm at a
million dollar a year and I don't want
anymore fine you won congratulations
like you won at life um but most of the
time they don't really quit they just
stop trying and then they just either
coast and or it just Fizzles into into
nothingness and that's just my
experience of having I'm sure you've
seen this having gone through like
cycles of entrepreneur it's like Seasons
it's like oh yeah I came in through even
like in the media and influencer space
whatever it's like there's a bunch of
guys that 10 years ago it's a different
landscape now than it was 10 years ago
some people adapted some of them were
like I don't like the they they just
they just they weren't willing to chew
the new glass which is how do I learn
Tik Tok how do I learn but man blogs
were so good it's like yeah and they're
not anymore I talked to an entrepreneur
really massive many hundreds of millions
of year in sales and he was like dude we
were killing it on infomercials so TV
and he's like we just you know we uh we
just we really just have to crack
YouTube and I'm thinking to myself like
dude it's 2024 like what like you needed
to crack YouTube 10 years ago and he had
the resources to do it but it was just a
different kind of hard and so most of
the hard is one a level of uncertainty
that that goes into it and almost
certain immediate failure because the
first thing you're going to do will
probably not work and again it's the
iterations of when you get into the new
domain you have to transfer your
generalized knowledge which is that as
an entrepreneur I will know that this
doesn't work probably because I only
know four things about it and I need to
know like 400 and so I will get my first
shot and I need to get directionally
correct and then just keep doing more of
that and so I gave the Consulting way of
learning kind of like a new space but if
you want to learn a new skill the
fastest way that I do it that's outside
of courses or anything is tremendous
volume of activity so whether that's
like I want to take a lot of sales calls
I want to do a lot of Outreach I want to
make a lot of content I want to do a lot
of customer success calls whatever it is
you do a hundred of those and then you
say what are the top 10% of these okay
what did these top 10% have different
than the other 90 and then I say okay
well these ones had these three things
that were different let's try and do
those three things on the next 100 and
then because of the variety of life
there's going to be some new variables
that exist that you look at the top 10%
of the next 100 and you're like okay we
did those three but there's also two
more things that happened in this 10
versus the other 90 now let's do all
five of those things and over time this
is how you develop a checklist for
making Banger content and Banger videos
and I'm sure like there's this clip
David Perell talks about Chris Rock's
creative process and he says how is it
that you see Chris Rock at Madison
Square Gardens and it's just like 60
Minutes of just fire you're like how is
this guy so funny and it's because what
you don't see is the many small clubs
and the first club that he goes to and
does a whole hourong set and has like
three moments that people laugh a lot
about and he's got like five minutes
that are good and the other 55 minutes
basically suck and so the next time he
goes to a club he takes those five
minutes puts them at the front and then
he tries all new material for the next
55 minutes and he gets another 5 minutes
and he continues to repeat this process
and put the new stuff at the front until
eventually is 60 Minutes of
uninterrupted laughing and then people
are like oh my God he's so talented I
can't believe that he can just stand up
there and talk into a microphone and
make everyone laugh cross age boundaries
cross cultural boundaries um cross you
know all of the boundaries that you
might imagine how can he be so funny to
everyone that's how how can that guy be
so good at writing well he looked at the
stuff that he wrote he found the best
stuff made it into the the few things
that he always does and then kept
writing and that fundamentally is the
process of learning anything and it's
usually not one thing it's many small
things that when added together in
aggregate create the outside returns
sorry that was a little Pulpit there I
just get violent about skill acquisition
like that's what it takes so interesting
but it's so interesting to see your
journey through that and how and how you
you you ended up at skill acquisition
because I was as you went through there
was three things that I was thinking
about and I managed to write them down
the first at the top of it was you you
detailed three reasons why hiring the um
exceptional person when you're faced
with that Paradox of what do I do with
my profits Mak so much sense one of the
big things I hear from Founders that
they don't appreciate
is to go for a long period of time you
have to have some kind of emotional
regulation and as you were talking about
the the different levels of business and
every level you have more problems what
I often see is a young founder hasn't
hired those levels in between to deal
with all those different types of
problems and they are like burning out
and thinking of quitting I had someone
in my office last week and she's on
route to build about a $50 $50 million
business this year and the first
question I said to her was what's your
executive team and she just like rolls
her eyes and she's like I don't have an
executive team she'd done a post on
social media basically in tear saying
that she was going to quit she's got a
30 to 50 million business it's growing
like wildfire but she's about to almost
quit it because she's dealing with every
single problem and often Founders say to
me they think because they're
experiencing so much hardship in that
like 1 to three million phase that
forever it's going to be just huge pain
and I talked to them about this thing I
called the promised land I love this cuz
cuz I cuz in the first two three years
of my business I thought that forever
I'm going to have to deal with every
[__] problem Jenny and the offic is
pissed off at Dave and on Saturday night
when they were drunk they did something
which they shouldn't have have and I
realized the problem was I hadn't solved
for hiring these levels so everything
was coming to me and the emotional toll
and my nervous system of dealing with
problem was not sustainable and then I
accidentally hiir someone good yeah who
I mentioned and from and she dealt sheal
with all [__] and then I could think
again as a Founder right so I wanted
just give a moment to that and your
thoughts on that I want to do my best
shot at operationalizing what you just
said for someone who's
listening when we have when we encounter
this issue we have a specific process
that we go through and so we tell the
founder I want you to make a Google
sheet really simple and I want you to
have the time slots from 5:00 a.m. to
you know midnight what however long you
work in 15minute increments and I want
you to set a timer easy timer kitchen
timer like for cooking for every 15
minutes and every 15 minutes I want you
to when it dings I want you to write
down what you did one or two one or two
words doesn't doesn't doesn't take a lot
now as soon as I say that people are
like oh my God I don't have time for
this I will promise you it will be the
most productive week of your life
because you will be aware of how you're
spending your time every time I do this
I immediately think I should do this all
the time and I don't so just do it just
do it for the one week okay and so what
happens is you'll do it for a whole week
and then what the second step of this is
you'll look at that and you'll say okay
wow I didn't know that 40% of my time is
dealing with this thing and I can hire a
role to handle 40% of my time for this
amount of money if I had 40% of my time
back I could double this business and
that would be worth significantly more
than what I'd pay this person and then
you look at the next 13 you know 15% of
your time and you're like okay is this
something that I can give to somebody
else like can I can I push this down can
I create some process around this that
can correct it or do I need to keep
eating it for a little bit until it's
enough that it's a full-time role and so
fundamentally I see the entrepreneur as
the the many hated fractional that you
continue to pull things under your plate
until you have enough that you can ship
it out to somebody else full-time and
being aware of again the one resources
we have which is time how we're
allocating it so we get the highest
return and so if you look at the stack
of time as an entrepreneur we are always
getting paid for our time kind of the
premise of the the whole the whole talk
here um is that we trade our time for
dollars and so we always the whole
process of Entrepreneurship is
continuing to trade up what you're
trading your time for and that's it like
at the most foundational level that is
all we're doing and so to take this as a
hypothetical your business doesn't need
you right now you spend spend whatever
hours you do working and you do these
things imagine a world where you could
hire somebody who could spend the same
amount of time doing all that stuff now
you own the business and whatever you
have to pay them you take out of the
profit and everything else is now
distributions that you own as an
owner that's it now the entrepreneur
who's Missi driven then Stacks their
plate with even more things that they
need to do and then just continues that
process over and over again now this is
the part where the the push back comes
which is no one can do what I can do and
I want to say you're right
and if I wanted to let's say you're a
unicorn so we can imagine this mythical
unicorn got this White Horse got the
horn tail everything and the little
pixie pixie flies for the magic that's
around it okay you probably won't find a
unicorn but you can find a white
horse and you can find a rhinoceros to
get the horn and you can find some
fireflies to give you the twinkles and
so you may not hire one person who has
all of these things but you can hire
three and then those three together can
potentially do everything that you're
doing better because it's all they're
doing with all of their time and
breaking it up into basically
understanding that you're not going to
find that unicorn but you just break it
into pieces and then you can partition
it out to people who can just do those
parts makes it a lot more manageable
from an emotional level to think like
I'm never going to find this of course
you're not and that's okay because we
can find we can solve for parts of our
calar calend and fundamentally when you
buy back the time you can then do what
you're like basically take the next step
in the business the other really
interesting thing as you were talking
about your friend who was doing blogs
and missed YouTube was the idea that our
success trapped the old innovators
dilemma yeah that success traps Us in
the past so your friend probably missed
YouTube because he didn't want to
reallocate headcount to something that
was working and paying the bills and
this I guess ties into your point about
failure being so unbelievably important
because what me and you both do right
now is going to get old yeah like you
know mean and we probably both watched
the people that came before us fade into
irrelevance look at these dinosaurs yeah
right and we're part of some kind of new
school of content creation but we're
going to become part of the old school
if we don't
yeah what's what's in that Gap
adapt and I think that it's a poort so
you know Google has their their you know
I think Sergey like solved this
mathematically but they I think they
called it 72010 so 70% of resources get
allocated to the Core Business do more
of what we're currently doing 20% goes
to adjacent businesses so things that
are high likelihood success that are you
know one-step removed from the existing
Core Business um and then 10% goes to
moonshots totally like off the path like
let's just see maybe we'll get 100 extra
turn we probably will lose on most of
these and he proved it with math he's
smarter than I am um but fundamentally
that is the concept of more better new
and so that's one of the chapters in in
in the leads book which is okay now that
you have the core four right these are
the four things that you can do you can
post content you can run ads you can do
Outreach to strangers you can do
Outreach to people you know those are
the four things any person can do to
advertise the first thing you do is you
do more and for most small businesses
they're they're doing so little and
think they're doing so much and it's
it's a huge gap in in understanding and
so I'll I'll tell this this story that's
that's probably the easiest way to
explain it which is when I had my first
gym I called up a mentor he had 20
locations I said how do you advertise he
said I use flyers I said okay so I put
300 Flyers
out it didn't work I called him back I
was upset I said WTF he said slow down
what was your test size and I said what
do you mean he's like well your test
size so like I mean 300 wasn't the only
amount that you put out I was like well
yeah it's like well our test size is
5,000 flyers and then once we have a
winner then we do 5,000 every day in
terms of Flyers that they put on cars to
get people in the get people in and so
over a 30-day period he would be putting
out 150,000 flyers and over a 30-day
period I put out
300 and so he was in a very real way
doing whatever the math is there but
like 300 times or whatever I don't know
a lot more 500 times the math sorry 500
times the Flyers that I was and of
course he was getting a better result
and so one of the fundamental
misconceptions of small businesses is
that they mistake V they mistake low
volume for volatility
meaning if you if you're not sure where
your sales come from and you get one
sale here and then you know two weeks
later you get another sale and it feels
sporadic it feels volatile well there is
a certain amount of advertising activity
that is occurring over that period of
time and we know that a month passes and
you get one to two sales and so the
companies that are in your space that
are doing one to sales a day take what
you're doing in a month and they do that
every day and I know that you can get
this and I want to put this in context
here I hear I would like to build a
personal brand and I say cool and then I
ask how much cont are you putting out
and they say you know I put out you know
one or two pieces a week and I like
that's amazing um for context for anyone
who's listening to this we put out 450
pieces a
week and so the brand that we have is
way larger because we do so much more
than you do and
that's it's people can't fathom the idea
that someone Works two times five times
10 times a thousand times more output
than they are doing but it is usually
the reality of why they are getting a
thousand times more than you're getting
and fundamentally this is the concept of
Leverage which is you know the that you
get more for what you put in in the
beginning you're the one doing the
flyers then you get leverage because
then you make enough from those flyers
that you can look at your time study and
be like okay I can pay two guys to do
these flyers and I can get eight hours
back that would be amazing but now
you've got two guys doing Flyers which
is still double of what you were doing
now you have double the revenue that's
coming in like okay should I hire more
guys that's more or should I do
something better should I change my
flyer up should I change the offer on
the flyer that would be better or should
I start Facebook ads well the new which
would be Facebook ads is the 10% thing
now when you're looking at allocation of
resources let's say we're now I'm fast
forwarding a little bit into a company
that has you know profit that they can
do stuff with part of the reinvestment
is insurance for the future and so every
business has three strategic buckets
that it has to allocate its resources
into number one is how do we get more
customers like if we get more customers
the company grows period number two how
do we increase lifetime gross profit per
customer so if we got the same amount of
customers but we made all the customers
worth more we would also grow bucket
three is how do we decrease risk AKA how
do we increase the likelihood that the
first two things don't stop happening
and so those are the three buckets and
so when we're when you look at that
72010 the for the most part is usually
going to be directed towards get more
customers make them worth more and the
better also Lads up to that the risk
factor is usually going to be the new
thing that you're going to do to uh
ensure your future is going to be there
by the time you get there and so if you
Noti if we noticed for example that like
YouTube becomes like Legacy television
and you know viewership starts dropping
and it becomes this new VR whatever
right at some point we're going to have
to look and be like we need to take 10%
20% of our profit every year and start
building out this this new team we're
going to continue to do what we're
currently doing and here's the mistake
that you need to avoid don't take the
stars that are making the one thing work
and then push them on the other thing
you have to find the people who can
build this otherwise you're going to
sacrifice the core because all of a
sudden it's like oh god well now we're
totally screwed because now we're not
getting customers from our existing
thing and we haven't figured out the new
thing yet right and so this is
fundamentally where I see the CEO role
is like you want to eventually become
the flex player which is that you can
parachute in to a specific division or
Department that's solving a complex
issue and then you have the benefit that
you have a CEO or founder is that you
have decision- making power and you have
the ability to allocate resources and
immediately say yes to things and that's
why and to be fair it's unfair to your
team to say why can't why can't they do
things as fast as me well because you
can write the checks and because you can
say yes you don't need to check with the
committee you don't need to run it up
the flag pole it's just you saying do
this do that don't worry about that I'm
telling you you can stay late for this
meeting this is more important and so
strategy is just a fancy word that
people say when mean prioritization
that's all it means we have we have
unlimited opportunities that we can
allocate things towards but we have
limited resources and so how do we
prioritize those unlimited opportunities
against those limited resources that is
fundamentally what strategy is and
that's another way of just saying we
prioritize yoga and Mya is the home of
our digestion and it's also a gateway to
Better Health but it can be hard to know
what's going on in there Zoe who
sponsors this podcast has one of the
largest microbiome databases on the
planet and one of the world's most
advanced at home got Health tests their
blood sugar sensor which I have in this
box in front of me goes on your arm so
you can see how different foods impact
your blood sugar then there's the at
home blood sample which is really easy
and analyzes your body's blood fat and
of course the
famous blue Zoey cookie which tests your
metabolism oh and I can't forget there's
also a poo sample which is a critical
step in understanding the health of your
microbiome and you post it all to Zoe
and you get your results back which will
help you to understand your body's
response to different foods using your
results Zoe's app will also create a
personalized nutrition plan for you and
this is exactly why I invested in the
business so my question to you is how
healthy is your gut head to zoe.com to
AUD yourkit and find out and because
you're one of our listeners use code
Steven 10 for 10% off your membership
head to zoe.com
now at my company flight Studio which is
part of my bigger company flight group
we're constantly looking for ways to
build deeper connections with our
audiences whether that's a new show a
product or a project it's I launched the
conversation cards I've relied on
Shopify before who's a sponsor of
today's podcast and I'll be using them
again for the next big launch which
we'll hear about soon and I use them
because of how easy it is to set up an
online store that reaches all of you no
matter where you are in the world with
Shopify the usual pain points of
launching products online Disappear
Completely no matter the size of your
business Shopify has everything you need
to make your business go to the next
level and better connect with your
customers all over the world to say
thank you to all of you for listening to
my show we're giving you a trial which
is just $1 a month you can sign up by
going to shopify.com
Bartlet that's shopify.com Bartlet or
find the link in the description
below on the on the car example you're
talking about with the Flyers yeah what
I was thinking is so many businesses try
and win on the game of creativity so
we'll create something more creative and
appealing as an advert and I see this in
my portfolio because they'll send me
something and they'll go Steve one
particular business thinking about a
major national supermarket has given us
a display slot in a in 400 supermarkets
which display should we use and they'll
say to me this one or this one right and
I remember replying to them and saying I
don't know and you don't know but here's
a system to find out we're going to
create a 100 displays and we're going to
run them as ads on Facebook or we're
going to create some kind of environment
where we're not going to try and win on
being the best creative guesses we're
going to win on our rate of
experimentation yeah we're going to
conduct more experiments yeah and I
think this is a a real shift in so many
regards because especially if we've gone
through University and we've been
trained as a copywriter we have the old
problem of wanting to be right not
successful yeah and and being able to as
a creative even as a podcast to say I
don't know what the right answer is but
I'm I'm going to create a system where
our rate of experimentation is going to
be so much higher than our competitors
that we're going to stumble across the
right answer more than they do is a
shift in thinking so there are two types
of questions that you shouldn't ask
questions that that can be solved with a
spreadsheet and questions that can be
solved with testing and so fundamentally
the outside advice that you get on
something that can be solved with math
just solve with math and I get I would
say like 30% of the questions that I get
are like should I should I sell this one
or this one and I'm like okay well
what's lifetime value of this product
and what's lifetime value of that
product okay what's cost to acquire for
this customer what's cost to acquire for
that customer okay this is a math
problem you have way higher LTV to C
ratio here allocate resources here but
that's a math problem anyone can just do
that math for the testing one I love
this like the leads book um I didn't
know what to name it so it's about
advertising so I ran story tests for
like a week or two just saying uh $100
million promotions $100 million uh
advertising and then advertising one
it's like1 million dollar advertising
$100 million marketing okay then
advertising wins I'm like okay $100 $100
million uh advertising $100 million
leads leads wins $100 million leads
versus two other things leads keeps
winning okay that's the title and then I
did the same thing for the cover I did
the same thing for the sub headline and
so I tested every component of it to get
the thing that people seem to want which
is like the book is advertising but
ironically people want leads so it's
kind of like uh do I want to have a book
on drills or do I want to have a book on
holes right people want the hole in the
wall not the drill that's just the
vehicle and so the book is just the
vehicle to getting leads amen um but uh
as a quick hack uh for anybody who has a
a brick-and mortar business this is just
a just a quick hack for anybody if
you're like what Market should I expand
into here's five markets we're looking
at take $1,000
run your best promotion that you win in
your current market in all five of those
markets see what your lead cost is in
all five markets the one that has the
lowest lead cost then open in that
market don't spend
$250,000 you know doing all these
studies and then and then building out
this location only to find out that the
lead cost in that area sucks just test
it first it's the best $5,000 or $10,000
that you're ever going to spend to just
ensure this is a risk this is a risk
bucket ensure that when you're there
it's going to work
I mean amen it's our whole philosophy so
it's U it's so wonderful to hear that
and I didn't realize that you done that
with the book oh yeah I have it in the
chapter where I'm like you have to wrap
everything and and I show all the tests
that I ran to I'm like you can see all
the percentages of of people saying this
is the that's the book title when people
look at you Alex they you're a guy that
knows a lot about a lot and one of the
questions that I often get as well is um
I need a mentor people kids will come up
to you and say I'm sure they say it to
you all the time will you be my mentor
yeah do mentors
matter so to I I'll explain what I'm
thinking through so to answer that
question I think it asks what is what is
required to
win
and is a mentor required
no but there
are certain behaviors and actions that
will increase the likel of
success if you can do those
actions faster then you will have a
higher likelihood of winning and high
have a higher likelihood of winning
faster all of humanity has been built on
us standing on our forefather's
shoulders and taking what they learned
we don't have to figure out how light
bulbs work I have no idea how the
internet works but I know that it works
and there's somebody who can figure it
out and so we just start where they kind
of lay off the Baton and then we pick it
up from there and we and we run the next
Tower manyu and then we die and we end
to the next guy
and I think you don't need mentors but
you need to learn from people ahead of
you and so I think in models not mentors
what can I model about their behavior so
that it can change my behavior to
increase the likelihood that I win
faster and so everything that I do and I
feel like pretty this a pretty strong
statement everything that I do Ls up or
down to behavior and so you'd probably
notice it when I talk about training and
employees when I talk about advertising
I just want to increase the likelihood
that a stranger takes that Des desired
action that's all I'm trying to do and
when we get into Behavior change it
removes a lot of the surface level fluff
that I think confuses the vast majority
of people and so I'm always afraid to go
on podcasts where somebody is like
really heavy in like manifestation and
like energy and frequencies and like
whatever the
hell and they'll say things like I
manifested this meeting and I'll be like
you didn't you're uh you have content
that did well because you produce
content on a regular basis and then your
EA reached out to my EA that reach out
is what initiated this not whatever
Vibes you were setting out into the
universe now some people might say yeah
it was also The Vibes but I would bet
that if they made the content and did
the reach out I would still do it which
means that those are the core things
because if we' removed those if we just
did the manifestation and didn't make
the content on the reach out I would not
be here and so one of these works one of
these doesn't and so that is what has
allowed me to try and extract the
essence from the mentors or Heroes ahead
of me I I consume a tremendous amount of
Elon basos Zuck anything that I can find
uh that they put out or that they're
interviewed on I try and consume it and
the whole goal is I want to think about
their decision-making process as it
relates to what they did and try and
apply that to my context um in terms of
behavior and so that has been just like
the big the big big big zoom out for do
I need a mentor no but you need to learn
stuff and so whatever way is the fastest
way for you to learn things do that and
so I'll tell this story because I think
it's it it like do you need one no no
one needs one you could you can
literally just do all of these things
through trial and err on your own and
you will figure it out time is obviously
the one thing that is the the big
question mark and I think part of it is
a question of how valuable is your time
to you not in a micro example but could
would I pay in time or money to move
forward five years and not make five
years of mistakes so when I started my
first gym I didn't actually start the
gym because I quit my job and I drove
across the country and I showed up at a
guy's house that I Googled on the
internet who said he was good at running
gyms his name was seven figure Sam all
right and so he was a gym Guru and so I
showed up at his actual gym unannounced
and I was like hey I'm here to be
mentored and learn and he was like uh
I'm working um I really don't know who
you are and uh like maybe we'll talk
tomorrow or something and I was like
okay and he's like where are you staying
and I said I don't know haven't decided
yet he's like what do you mean I was
like that's my car I just drove here and
all my stuff's in there and he's like
you have nowh I was like figured I just
figured out when I got here and so he
offered me to stay that at his at his
house that night which was unbelievably
generous and maybe my salesmanship got
him you know who knows um but within a
few weeks he had a Meetup of all the
gyms that were kind of like following
his little system for how he ran his
personal training studio and and boot
camp and I got to go as a 22-year-old
and I paid to have access to this
community of gym owners and they were
all going around talking about what was
going good and what was going wrong uh
in the business and when it got to me I
was like well okay so I want to open a
location and this is kind of what I was
thinking about my model and this is what
I was thinking about price points and
they were like wrong wrong here's why
that's not going to work here's how
that's not going to work and I was like
oh uh okay well this is where I was
going to buy equipment they're like
don't buy there that's retail you can
get it from secondhand over here and
it's literally a tenth of the price and
I was like oh that's awesome okay great
I was like well I was thinking about
getting this this type of thing they're
like no girls will eat [__] on that and
they'll fall like I've had two girls do
it don't worry about it like you're end
not going to use it but you can get
sandbags you can use them all the time
and they're super cheap and if you have
to replace them you can but you can use
them for like hundreds of exercises and
I was like great I'll do that and then I
was like okay so I was thinking about
this kind of square footage for my for
my facility they're like dude you don't
need all that you can cut that in half
and I was like okay well cut that in
half and um I was like I'm willing to
pay two bucks a foot and they were like
no never go over 150 and I was like okay
never go over and so like in a matter of
a day I got to take like all of the
knowledge of all of these guys of the
mistakes that they had all made with
their gyms and I started my first gym
just on their
backs and so how much was that Worth to
me years and so for me I have always
been willing to pay in whatever currency
was required to get knowledge that I
don't know can you get that now for free
yes it didn't exist then YouTube wasn't
even a thing Instagram had just come out
like for context who listening to this
um I think about this equation a lot and
I actually had some video of somebody
[__] on me for this but I'm going to
say it anyways because there's the 20% G
to say that's I'm not going to dilute
myself so I saw a Salesman say this at a
at a at a conference and he he wrote a
million doll on a
whiteboard and he called up a lady in
the in the audience and he said how much
do you make and she said $50,000 a year
so he wrote $50,000 underneath the
million and he subtracted it and it said
$950,000 he said it cost you $950,000
every single year you don't know how to
make a million dollar a year and so the
question is what is the value of that
skill and the answer is the
difference and so the the the troll who
who who who responded to this originally
was like well you can keep going what
about a100 million do a year or a
billion dollars a year and I was like
yes yes if you had the skill of making a
billion dollars a year then the
difference between 50,000 and a billion
is the Delta of the value of that skill
and it's really not one skill it's many
skills that lad her up to when combined
together to create that kind of value
but I remember that being like seared
into my memory which is like whatever I
want to have the Delta between where I'm
at and where that thing is is what
basically what I've what I'm willing to
sacrifice in order to learn what I need
to learn to get there and I think that
if people appraised that Delta not by
the money in their wallet or the time
that they currently have but how much
they would be making or how much time
they would have and how much that's
worth to them then I think far more
people would be willing to invest in
their education and it's such a taboo
word because people hate the word
education it's like oh it's like work
but like you want to be an entrepreneur
like you got to learn you just have
there's so much stuff to learn Pirates
versus practitioners this is an idea
that I've I've thought about a lot over
the years because I look at someone like
you and I can tell based on everything
you say today that you are a
practitioner um in this analogy what I
call a parot is is someone who hears
what Alex said and then starts saying it
but your lessons and wisdom have come
from going through that [__] and and
being able to distill the essence like
Richard Fryman and then share um there
is a group of people that just spend
their whole life reading books yeah
posting about it Etc they never take the
jump Pirates versus practitioners is the
best way to learn being a
practitioner this is widely known in the
education space but not as much in the
the content world but there are two
types of uh education there is
procedural and there is declarative so
declarative knowledge is knowing about
something procedural knowledge is
knowing how to do something so a simple
example would be okay I understand how
private Equity works right like that you
can you could talk about it you can
explain how okay they take some debt and
then they have this Arbitrage and they
get this Enterprise Value multiple
whatever but you've never done a deal
and until you've done a deal you will
not have procedur knowledge of knowing
how to actually do a deal and so you can
read a hundred books on sales but you
will learn more about actually selling
from your first hundred sales calls and
business is the same yes and so the idea
in my opinion for most people is that if
you want to rapidly learn you want to
rapidly do those 100 repetitions as fast
as you can so that you can suck a 100
times in a row and find the 10 that did
that sucked the least and then say how
do I suck least on the next 100 and you
keep doing that so many times until
eventually you suck so little that
you're actually
good hard work yes and I think you know
this is actually really interesting
because it Lads up to because there's
two types of creators you've you've got
entertainers and then you have Educators
at least that's how I separate it the
point of entertainment is to maintain
the attention of the audience that is it
so the point of an Entertainer is to
literally just keep people watching the
point of an educator is to change
someone's behavior and so if you
uh if you want content to do well in
either of these buckets fundamentally at
least in the education space you selling
time so
education is
I spent all this time doing this thing
to learn these four things that I can
give to you so that you don't have to
spend this time learning it and so
education is actually if said
differently what you do is you buy time
so when you buy it's the only thing it's
the only way to actually buy time today
so if you want to basically Time Warp
into your future you have to buy
education so that you can buy all of the
life experiences from all these people
and then not pay for it in your life you
pay for it with less time by consuming
what they have or some money or some
combination of those things and
fundamentally we usually pay with the
currency that we value least and so
interestingly a rich person values their
time more than their money and so
they're willing to pay with money to get
time back a poor person will also pay
for their time and drive around to 10
different gas stations to find the one
thing that's 10 cents cheaper or drive
to 10 different grocery stores to to use
whatever whatever coupons they're
valuing their time over their money in
that instance and
so back to the the
educator if you want to be certain or
have confidence in any Endeavor you have
to do so much volume of activity that it
would be unreasonable that you would
suck and if you were to write out the
equation of like okay how many public
speeches would I need to give for it to
be unreasonable that I would suck is it
10 is it 100 is it a thousand write the
number that you're like there's no way
that I would suck after this many and
then all of your effort gets really
narrowed commitment elimination of
Alternatives focused turn down quality
and quantity of other things to just
doing that and then and the key part of
this is not just to do the Thousand but
after every 10 or every 20 looking at
the top 10 or 20% and saying what did I
do well there and then because you have
to have the feedback loop otherwise it's
not just doing 100 reach outs you have
to do 100 reach outs and then look at
what worked and then do more of what
worked and so for the the parent versus
the uh practitioner uh component of
this even if you're starting out you can
have confidence in what you're doing
because you derived the solution and you
can actually answer why you do something
so if you cannot explain why you believe
what you believe it's not your belief
it's someone
else's and so most people I would say
parot the vast majority of the things
that they say because and to be fair
that's how humans learn you're 5 years
old you say what's that they say Bull
and you say bull you pared it back and
there we go right but when it comes to
uh skills you can describe what other
people have said before but if something
goes wrong or what about this condition
you won't know what to do but if you
derived it from the ground up and
there's a there's a great uh portion of
this in the Y combinator Community that
you or the Silicon Valley Community that
you probably heard it maybe like three
or four months ago it was like founder
mode did did that get to the UK okay it
was from um Brian ches I actually
messaged him about it after oh yeah it
was like it was it was awesome right and
so the basically the tenant is that the
founder always has special powers in the
company because you know what built it
and so that is basically at its core the
practitioner versus parrot the people
who came later are parting why you do
what you do but you know what conditions
you were in when you made this Rule and
also you know how to break it and when
to bend those rules and so if you build
something when you built it from those
repetitions to to still out the few
truths that exist you'll know why those
are the truths like I'll give you a
really simple example so if we you know
we've tried to learn YouTube and we've
gotten better over time um but in the
beginning I did this massive review and
I figured out that the the videos that
we had that had three things at the
beginning proof promise plan was the
videos that did the best and so then all
of a sudden we said okay all videos have
to have proof promise plan right at the
beginning the first 30 seconds great so
we started doing that for a while and
then we looked at the outliers among
those and we were like oh well we also
in some of the ones that did really well
also had some sort of visual picture of
of this plan all right so it became
proof promise plan
picture then we kept looking and we
found out over more repetitions that if
we also include includes some sort of
pain or problem that's being solved that
also helps so proof promise plan picture
pain and so you're like wait if you keep
adding to this thing it's going to get
really long no sometimes you can check
multiple boxes with one thing and this
becomes the Elegance of creation like
how can I how can I check off three of
these boxes with one sentence right and
so that is by the way for if you're like
thinking about this you're like do they
really think about this when they're
making videos yes and that is the
difference between a 10,000 view video
and a million view video and it's it's
understanding that level of nuance
across the ENT ire thing that creates
expertise and also when you're like oh
this video flopped when you're a
beginner you're like these videos in
general don't work or content doesn't
work rather than saying this video
didn't work and here's why because we
did three of the
five and so it's just like all of the I
mean the devil is in the details and you
only you only you meet the Devil Himself
by doing the unreasonable amount of work
and then it becomes it goes from
uninformed uh lack of knowledge to
informed optimism because first you're
like I can make videos get rich then you
realize that it's really hard to make
videos that people watch and then
finally you start develop a framework of
this is how I make videos that people
watch and when they don't watch it it's
because I didn't follow it it's so
timely because it's weaves into
something you said earlier because my
girlfriend came to the recording
yesterday and as I went into the green
room and I sat down she went babe look I
found this new app and I said what is it
she goes it's an app that summarizes
books yeah and she it's called like head
something and she showed me it and I go
look at my book yeah cuz I know the laws
I know the chapters I know all of the
principles that lead up to the point so
show me my book and law two of my book's
called 33 laws so these 33 laws I got it
yeah and um law two was about the
Richard fman technique you talked about
and I explain why that process of
learning something simplifying it to its
Essence for a 10-year-old teaching it to
someone else if they understand it move
on if they don't go back to the top and
learn again and it had summarized l two
of my book to um like writing is the
best way to learn yeah and I said babe
if you I said if you just read that that
summary the top of the pyramid and you
don't have the story and all these
agreeable foundations which I then
explained to her would you be able to
then translate that and truly understand
the nature of the problem so that you
could apply it to lots of different
settings and so on and then I told her
what that that second law in my book
actually meant and she deleted the app
yeah because there's no point knowing
the the conclusion the aphorism yeah
like like the punchline when you don't
know the story um and without the story
you can't I I guess get get to the first
principles of the thing so this is
really interesting because um with that
fan example it it proves that the
distillation of knowledge is not
bidirectional so you Richard Fineman can
break it down to a child but a child
cannot then rederive what Fineman has
done interesting yeah and so it's it's
convenient for the transmission of
communication and for teaching someone
who's let's say coming new to an
organization here's the here are the
things and these give you the
decision-making Frameworks around which
and it can give you directional um uh
guidance but that is the whole founder
mode that is basically a different way
of getting to the founder mode idea that
person derived this thing yeah and so
when a problem arises we can rederive
the next solution rather than trying to
apply the aphorism to a new setting
another point for Founders who are
getting their work copied because this
everything you've just said actually
should give a Founder who's having their
work copied their t-shirt designs their
content copied huge amount of piece
because if I need to know steps 1 2 3 4
five up the staircase to success to be
able to predict step six then if
someone's just copying your step five
you should be at total piece because
they don't know yeah the the foundations
that would lead to the next step and
that's what we see as podcasts podcast
is copy you they'll copy your thumbnail
your title your whatever dude I mean I'm
sure you you see it everywhere but the
piece that the piece that I have is
honestly I say to the team all the time
if that's the thing that makes us
special we're [__] anyway yeah like if
if it's the thumbnail or the this or the
how we do this if it's the trailer that
made us special we're [__] any way
yeah but also there's a set of
principles we call it the iceberg the
99% of what we do you can't see it's the
it's the culture as you said it's like
uh so I have so much on this so um one
is right when I sat down you were
telling me about uh the episode that we
we ran that was like akin to a shark
tank but new version that we had on our
Channel and as you saw me like kind of
like grow and be like it was 56 minutes
on video but it was so much work to
produce that one thing but no one sees
all the work behind it that's the 99% %
so that's thing one the the next thing
is think about the if you're a Founder
who's plagued with competition and being
upset about it I was one too and I want
to tell you how I got over it so number
one is think about the alternative which
is that no one copies you because no one
cares about what you're doing well then
it would be a requisite for Success that
people will copy you so as long as you
are successful this is just a part of
business the the second piece is by
definition if someone copies you they
are second period and so if you want to
lead you can't look at anyone else you
have to consistently be deriving the
next step the step six that's unseen
from your first five steps to innovate
rather than I'm just going to parot the
next thing and as soon as you find
yourself copying you have admitted
defeat you've admitted that you were no
longer the leader and that you were just
following in someone else's footsteps
and you're giving them the Baton and
saying you be the champion I'm happy
with second third fifth place and in a
winner take all world like attention is
all the fruits go to the first place
anyways amen amen I have nothing more to
add that's talk two last the last thing
I want to talk to you about is it's
really like a three-part thing it's hard
work love and happiness okay and I put
them together intentionally um one could
say work life balance yeah love
happiness I think these things are kind
of fundamentally intertwined but how do
you think about it you're someone that's
known as being very obsessive um very
into your work to say the least um you
have a wonderful partner who seems to be
aligned I know oh super okay good she's
hardcore so let's go through it work
life balance SL hard work love and
happiness okay if we start with work
life
balance it was that [__] question
beliefs on it
yeah so I will answer with how I derived
my kind of Life thesis which was after
we uh so when we went to so we had taken
about $40 million in distributions from
gym launch um personally throughout the
you know years that we ran the company
and then in the year of the sale um for
those of you've never sold a company
before you typically don't want to
change a lot of things you kind of want
the company to just be like be stable
keep working everything's fine and so
one of it's one of the most harrowing
experiences to go through because you
can't really change anything and if
you're the founder you're always trying
to innovate so you can't do what you're
normally doing um and you also can't
start the next so you can't change
current and you can't start new
because if the deal doesn't go through
then you don't want to start two
businesses remember because we you know
cardinal rule number one we're not
chasing chasing wom in the red dress and
so you basically have to sit idly by and
just like let things operate and so in
that year it was one of the most
miserable years of my life because I
basically had nothing to do and um when
I looked back on my life this sounds
like you know I looked back on my life
as though it's been so long I looked at
the days that I enjoyed the most and on
those days I had worked out and I had
produced something and I had done both
of those with people I
liked
and almost all of those days I'd worked
many many
hours and when I realized that the idea
of working hard so that I can insert
blank the so that actually makes it
still destination
driven so that was when I DED what I
called hard work is the goal it's just
to work hard that is my goal and then
die MH on things worth
doing and I those are the days that I
love and I get a tremendous amount of
push back for saying this and it bothers
a lot of people and to them I say live
your life whatever way you want this is
again my my life is not a sermon it's a
documentary this is just how I do it you
can do whatever you want and for the
people who are dissatisfied try it and
if not no worries um I really enjoy
working like the best days are like when
I write those books it's the happiest I
am and it's not happy in the moment
because it's really hard but the amount
of challenge is about proportional to my
level of skill and every book I think is
better than the last and the third book
that's coming out is going to be [__]
awesome I'm very excited about it but
there's nothing that I enjoy more more
but in the moment I'm like how do I
break this down and I'm just rubbing my
forehead and I'm like and then I and I
create two three different Frameworks
I'm like no that's that doesn't work
here and that doesn't work here which
means some kid in Afghanistan is going
to get stuck on this step because it
doesn't work I have to figure out how to
get it so that it works everywhere and I
keep driving into but the moment it's
like it clicks I'm like that's it fight
me like that's the
framework that is what I what I strive
for and for me the love the happiness
and work have all because of the nature
of my life in one now some people have
lived their lives where their love life
and their happiness and their work are
all separate um for me it has just been
life and I like it that way and for the
people who are upset by that I'm not
upset about how you live your life um I
just choose to live it this way and if
in the future I change my mind I'll
change my life if I get to a point where
I'm like this is no longer a priority
for me something else is then I will but
when I look at the centenarians and I
look at the people who like I look at
Warren Buffett as somebody and Charlie
merer as two of my heroes Charlie worked
until the day he died and to be clear I
don't work on a 7-Day calendar um I
don't work a certain hour I work as much
as I can until I feel like my rate of
output drops precipitously because of
fatigue and then I and I sleep and then
if I feel like on a on a longer time
Horizon of like I've worked nine days
I've worked 20 days I've worked 30 days
in a row and I'm like all right I feel
like I don't have any gas today then
I'll take the whole day off and whether
that's a Tuesday or a Sunday or Saturday
I take the day off and that just is what
it is and I've just I have learned to
work that way and I am okay with it the
goal clearly for you then is the hard
work itself and not a certain place
you're trying to get to necessarily
because that always moves yeah and so um
Jesse iler has this and maybe maybe I'll
I'll be able to steal it from him
someday um but he told I saw him show a
picture of his kid finishing a race and
putting a zero up and what that
signified was nothing left in the tank
that he'd spent everything he had on the
field and I
would and it's like I have this visual
of uh the 300 movie where the queen says
to the king as he goes off the battle
she says come back with your Shield or
on it and I kind of see like my work
that way like I can't imagine a better
way to go out than like doing the thing
I love and it bothers a lot of people
that I love something different than
they love and it's like it really it
really Bo and it it bothers me that it
bothers them to be honest
um because I I I make no projections
like do whatever you want and I feel
like if if I ever had a a like one thing
that that people took from me it was
like absolute freedom and because of
that absolute freedom we are 100%
responsible for our own lives and so
where we place the the finger of blame
is also where power flows so if you
blame your parents for your life your
parents have power over your life if you
blame your boss for your bad life your
boss has power over your life if if you
blame you for your bad life at least you
can change you and you can do something
about it and so I think absolute
responsibility has been my my core
tenant and if you have a life where
you're like I don't want to care about
work that much and I just want to spend
all my time with my family I'm like
congratulations you [__] won that's
amazing just don't assume that
everyone's you and that winning for me
is is the same as winning for you and
and it and I think the the times that I
talk about this I I know that my my
message won't resonate with everyone and
that's okay but it's for the few people
who were like me and felt like everyone
told them there was something wrong with
them and I still get people to tell me
there's something wrong with me and if
wrong means not normal then yeah you bet
but it's more so that like you are
different and that's okay and I think
that if you're if you're okay with that
then it unleashes this whole new realm
of possibility of being able to do what
you want and kind of like I had the you
know you do a 100 of these and you look
at the top 10% do 100 of these look at
the top 10
percent that was my way of trying to
operationalize happiness because it was
this ephemeral thing that when I was 18
19 20 21 22 I struggled a ton with I was
very depressed I looked at you know
religion I looked at a lot of different
things and this is common for people at
that age
and um I I came up with a mantra for me
at that time which was [__] happiness
now people then hear this and I'm sure
this will get taken out of context but
that was basically like this release
moment for me where by continually
chasing happiness it always existed
outside of me and so it was always this
carrot that was in front of me that I
could never really get to and so by
saying [__] happiness I was like it's
unattainable I'm just going to work and
I'm just going to do the stuff I want to
do and when I started doing the stuff
that I wanted to do I looked up years
later and I was like I kind of like my
life and I was like is this what
happiness is and I was like I don't know
but I think one of the the major plights
of humanity myself included is the
expectation that life should be
different than it is and so we we we
create this idea that whatever we have
right now is not what it should be and I
think should is the is the root of all
pain is that all the things that we
think should happen but aren't is our is
basically the measurement of our pain
and so I've tried to eradicate should
from my life should for other people she
should do this they should do that um
and just just lean into is it just is
this way I work period not I should work
more I should work less I should work
differently I should see my mom more I
should call my dad more I do this and if
something changes I will change and so
unconditional shoulds now if there is a
condition of like if you want to make
more money then this is a high higher
likelihood you you might want to
consider doing this those are things
that I don't consider in that category
but just the generalized shs of he
shouldn't do that he should he should
build a family he should have kids he
should have gotten married earlier he
should have gotten later he should have
married someone different he shouldn't
have the the life that he has he
shouldn't work this way according to
what and so for me that is my my theory
on life on on on happiness work and love
has been very unified because I love my
work so much
that I got out of a relationship and
when I you know started dating Ila I
said I am not willing to change this and
so you have to be willing to deal with
me working this way or this won't work
because my relationship with my work is
the most satisfying relationship I have
now people will hear that and be like
well that's because he's never
experienced True Love or Whatever
Whatever Whatever narrative they'll
they'll say but it's like you haven't
lived my life and I haven't lived yours
and I don't project anything onto you um
but I I like I like I love what I do and
I like I get attacked for liking what I
do so much and I like working a lot and
and it's because they have negative
associations with the word and that's
that's their own history of of of their
experience with the word but I see my
goals and my relationship with my goals
as one of the most sacred things that I
have because I see them as a
relationship with
myself and so those those proxy ones
someone comes in and says hey you know
sweetie you've been working too much
according to what why should I stop
right um now let's do this other thing
and people will probably see this as a
they'll put whatever labels they want on
it but like I just said this is what I
would like to do with my life and if you
can incorporate yourself into that that
would be amazing and so my second date
with Ila after we talked about business
for 4 hours on our first date was I said
I'm going to be working all day it'd be
cool if you worked with me and she just
worked next to me she had her own thing
but she just worked beside me and I was
like this is nice and over time
eventually was like hey maybe you want
to work on my thing with me and she was
like yeah that sounds good it was a
little bit more than that but like
fundamentally I got her to to switch
switch to to working on it with me and
at that point what we got to talk about
was what we were creating together and
to me that's been you know the Journey
of my life and it's been it's been
amazing and um I'm not saying it works
for everyone I say it probably doesn't
work for most people uh but it has
worked really well for me and it would
make sense for me that my path would be
different than most people's because I
don't behave like most people and so I
would have to have a different formula
for how I drive you know meaning or Joy
from my own life and since I don't
believe in inherent meaning um just the
meaning that we choose to ascribe to
things then it's up to me to create that
meaning within the work that I do and so
the reason acquisition. comom was all
based on and it was during that year
where I just basically had nothing to do
where I was like what do I want to do
with my life because I don't need to
work anymore and that was you know we
taken 40 out before the sale and then we
obviously got the sale so like I don't
need to work I like to work and I I try
to spend I look at you know I had this
boss that told me this and was one of
the one of the catalysts for for looking
at life this way she said I had just had
like a good weekend or something and I
came in like chipper and she said well
you must have had a good weekend and I
was like yeah it was it was good and she
said this it was like an off-handed
comment she said I'm pretty sure the key
to happiness is living as many days in a
row like that as you can and it was
actually like really operational like I
could I was like I can use this like
what are the good days how do I live as
many of those days in a row as I can and
so I've you know I've been attacked for
like saying that I don't really enjoy
going on vacation very much um and it's
because like I just want to get I just
want to get back to doing the thing that
I really enjoy doing and I remember we
Lea and I went to uh Mexico uh this year
for a week and it's always during the
week of Christmas cuz no one works and
it drives me nuts and I've just like
I've I've just given up trying to get
you know get to work because even if my
team will work cuz my team will because
they they're crazy too other teams won't
and vendors won't it's aain anyways and
so while we were there all I came out
with was like this is for other people
and not
me comma and that's okay ear WR when we
were talking about s a long r no it's
beautiful because it so a couple of
takeaways from it but earlier on we were
talking about being a great content
creator is a byproduct of Having the
courage to be yourself and from that
what everything you just said solo yeah
I also gleamed something similar which
is being happy MH requires the same
thing which is the courage to be
yourself and in both in the previous
analogy you said everybody is unique
yeah and that is their value as it
relates to showing up in marketing or
with whatever product they have but also
when I think about Alex's story your
story and all you went through with your
father and the early experiences in that
consultancy firm the gym the fur place
you worked logically from first
principle
the that's going to make you happy
because you are completely unique is
going to be completely different from
everybody else right like to varying
degrees depending on how you sort of
defining your early experiences are but
I actually think we talked about the
courage of being yourself there's also
the courage of being happy MH and with
the courage of being happy you have to
withstand public pressure the shoulds
you said from your parents whatever from
social media especially if you become a
bigger
Creator to actually just listen how you
feel every day can I can I throw
something out that I think might like so
this blew my mind so I was in around
that same period of time I because I
talked to everybody I could to try and
get context on this and so I I called a
friend of mine up um or not a friend I
would say acquaintance that I got
connected with who'd sold his company
for hundreds of millions of dollars
really bright guy and one of the
questions I asked him I said so how do
you how do you drive meaning from your
life and he said and that really really
shook me um which doesn't happen that
much given him my worldview he said why
do you think that life needs to be
meaningful and it was just this really
interesting question which is basically
that I had an unspoken demand of the
universe life should be meaningful I
should be happy and so it's the shoulds
that we don't even know that we think
and say that are the ones that chain us
the most like hardcore and so my
favorite quote of all time which is
probably at the front of a few of the
books that I have and probably be the
one that'll be on my my Tombstone is a
permutation of an or Orson Scott Card
quote which is we question all of our
beliefs except for those that we truly
believe and those we never think to
question and so I would say that a lot
of my entrepreneu career even just human
Journey has been what are the beliefs
that I so so inherently believe that I
don't don't even see them I don't even
think about the should and so when he
said that to me I was like whoa I have
had this inherent demand of the universe
that my life be meaningful
and now people would hear this and be
like they have their shoulds and they're
going to say well it should be
meaningful and I'm like why according to
what and if we look at history history
pretty much sweeps everyone under the
under the bed like within a hundred
years and within a thousand years
basically everyone and the people that
we remember we remember some of their
works and we go a 100,000 years in the
future or 10,000 years in the future
probably unlikely that we will be
remembered in general and that is
solving for the idea that we need to be
remembered again we have to why and so
my solving has been for um degrees of
freedom and uh responsibility so what
are the things that I can control and I
will do the very best of my ability to
try and do the things um within my
control to ideally make other people's
lives better and my own in the process
now that is a choice rather than a I
demand that of the Universe um and this
gets really abstract and heady really
fast and so I will try and you know
bring us back down to Earth but by by by
demanding that life be meaningful by
demanding that I be happy when I
understood that I was demanding these
things and and pursuing them that they
were outside of me by saying I need to
do this that I created inherent space
that I could never Gap I could never
close and so by trying to forget or
eliminate the demand is where it was the
first time that I experienced those
things and so IED to keep them out of my
head to the greatest degree possible so
that I can be inside of them that sounds
weird um rather than in
Pursuit and so that um and so the times
where I derive the most Joy from my life
if I'm if I'm optimizing for that which
is I wouldn't necessarily say that I am
optimizing for Joy um I think Williamson
was like you definitely optimize for
purpose or meaning or something like
that and
um I I kind of reject a lot of it mostly
because I do what I have been rewarded
for doing in the past and so because I
have a behaviorist view of the world
which is that everything boils down to
behaviors um why do I do these things I
do these things because when I have done
them in the past I have enjoyed the
result and so I continue to do things
that I've enjoyed the result of and if
other people have done things that they
enjoy the result of then I encourage you
to keep doing them and I also encourage
you to not project that other people
need to also do those things and that
they will experience the same result as
you because they might
not Alex thank you oh
that was such a a beautiful way to end
and um I I've it's so interesting
because if if people attack you for that
I just wanted to give my own perspective
is when I hear you say these things
about not not enjoying holidays and yeah
um things about your relationship with
Laya and how how that happens for me I
feel even if I don't agree with 100% I
probably get to 95% to be honest with
you the fact that you're telling me that
you're different makes my difference
whatever it might be
feel acceptable do you know what I'm
saying I I 100% know what you're saying
because because when I heard you say
these things and I go oh my God Alex
feels like he's different from the
normal too we might not be me and Alex
aren't the same but we both feel
inherently like we're not playing by the
rules and therefore in some way getting
life wrong based on this like public
Narrative of the way we should live our
lives I thought amazing I remember
watching the video where you talked
about not like in going on holidays and
being like absolutely obsessed and me
thinking oh my God I'm so [__] glad
he said that because deep in my heart
somewhere I felt a guilt yeah oh I you
know a guilt and I'm like where did the
guilt come from I'm doing it something
that I love every single day but I feel
guilty well I feel guilty because of
other people's shs right so please Alex
despite the um despite any critics that
might be out there please continue to
have the courage to be yourself CU you
have no idea how it's making a group of
weirdos that feel like they don't fit in
feel heard and understood for their
variance well that is my yeah I mean
it's I I make it for
them we have a closing tradition on this
podcast as you know where the last guest
leaves a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're leaving in
for god I'm laughing because it's so
ironic
okay great what is the meaning of
life well the short answer is obviously
42 um but um
um I actually do think it's
learning um because if we think about
what learning is it's that you're
exposed to new conditions that over time
change your behavior and so you are
different now than you were 10 years ago
because you've learned more things and
so if we think about the meaning of life
as what is the output of life so I
actually do really like this so people
talk I can relate this to business of
course I can really what's the meaning
of life to business but what is the
meaning of a business the purpose of the
business is is whatever the output of
that business
is that's the meaning it's it's what the
output of that business is and so if the
mission like with uh Elon is like to get
to Mars then the output of the the
mission is that people get to Mars and
so that's the meaning of that business
and so the meaning of life in general
for me I think for All Humans is that
the output of experience is
learning and
so we will learn regardless whether we
want to or not we learn Learning Happens
whether you want whether you like it or
not you will learn um and I think that
that's where I would just leave it and
the question is are you learning the
things that you
want
amen I highly recommend people go and
check out the new format you launched on
your YouTube channel it's um titled
building a $1 million business for a
stranger in 56 minutes it's kind of like
a new take on Shark Tank but it's more
actionable more practical it's what you
referenced earlier and I know it took
you many many many many hours yeah to
perfect it but it's a really interesting
format that I think YouTube is seeking
because it's so actionable and practical
and I'd highly recommend I'll link that
below but i' would also highly recommend
people go and check out these books I
mean they've been to say they've been
Smash Hits is a mass massive
understatement um thank you Mil I just I
mean I just see it everywhere I fit feel
like it's a prerequisite of any
entrepreneurs toolkit when they're
starting and they're trying to figure
out Frameworks for scaling a business
making sales generating leads and I know
there's another one on the way which you
won't tell me about but I know it's
coming this year which is volume three
of this this format and I'm
exceptionally excited to see it and for
any entrepreneurs out there that are
looking to get in business with you I'd
highly recommend they go check out
acquisition. comom because there's so
much there regardless of where you are
in the cycle whether you're starting out
whether you're scaling up whether you're
looking for advice acquisition. comom is
the to be thank you Alex for your
generosity I appreciate it and thank you
for all that you do thank you for being
weird and different because like that's
again that's the value that's all the
value in the world um we don't need more
of the same we need people that have the
courage to be themselves and the courage
to be happy um and that's exactly who
you are and I really really appreciate
it thank you so
[Music]
much isn't this cool every single
conversation I have here on the DI of at
the very end of it you'll know I ask the
guest to leave a question in the Diary
of a CEO and what we've done is we've
turned every single question written in
the Diary of a CEO into these
conversation cards that you can play at
home so you've got every guest we've
ever had their question and on the back
of it if you scan that QR code you get
to watch the person who answered that
question we're finally revealing all of
the questions and the people that
answered the question the brand new
version 2 updated conversation cards are
out right now at Theon conversation
cards.com they' sold out twice
instantaneously so if you are interested
in getting hold of some limited edition
conversation cards I really really
recommend acting quickly
[Music]
oh